
Membership in a protein domain database does not a domain make; a feature we realized when generating a consensus view of protein fold space with our Consensus Domain Dictionary (CDD). This dictionary was used to select representative structures for characterization of the protein dynameome: the Dynameomics initiative. Through this endeavor we rejected a surprising 40% of the 1695 folds in the CDD as being non-autonomous folding units. Although some of this was due to the challenges of grouping similar fold topologies, the dissonance between the cataloguing and structural qualification of protein domains remains surprising. Another potential factor is previously overlooked intrinsic disorder; predicted estimates suggest 40% of proteins to have either local or global disorder. One thing is clear, filtering a structural database and ensuring a consistent definition for protein domains is crucial, and caution is prescribed when generalizations of globular domains are drawn from unfiltered protein domain datasets. 
The interpretation of “protein domain” is highly dependent upon context, yet in all definitions a domain is a region of an amino acid sequence with features that are repeated throughout the protein kingdom. These features can be a region of conserved primary structure [1], part of a sequence known to confer function, or defined by the boundaries within which the sequence can form a structural unit. A structural domain is loosely defined as a unit that can exist independently when excised from the full protein or complex. More specifically, a domain is an independently structured unit capable of autonomous folding. In many cases function is related to structure, and the boundaries of a functional domain can correlate with those of the structural domain, with sequence conservation in both the structural and functional sense. However, in the structural context, protein domain families need not have high sequence similarity; they require only similarity in the tertiary structure of that “fold”. Grouping structures based on similarity, or performing a geometric alignment of conserved structure, is decidedly more challenging than the alignment of a protein sequence. Two proteins with a similar arrangement of secondary structure may not have the same chain directionality through the secondary structure elements, and they may contain non-conserved regions that are significantly different. Figure 1A illustrates this scenario for five domains from the ferredoxin-like fold family. The commonality in the arrangement of two a-helices packed against a ß-sheet is apparent, yet there is extraneous structure and variation in the lengths and alignment of loop regions. Hence, defining a domain can be a complex matter and is susceptible to much uncertainty and inconsistency. 
The origin of classifying structural units into domains came following the solution of very similar structures starting with myoglobin in 1958 [2] and haemoglobin in 1960 [3]. It was clear even from these early low-resolution structures that there were common structural elements. The simplest of these show collections of secondary structure found together in repeated arrangements [4] that appear in all members of a given fold family. Domains themselves, can be classified based on the overall structure observed, all-a, all-ß or a mixture of a/ß or a+ß. Examples within these broad classes can be found in Figure 1B: all­ß, immunoglobulin-like;a+ß, flavodoxin-like; a/ß, TIM barrel; and all-a, three-helical bundle. Today, identification of a novel domain structure, or fold, is rare [5]; since 2008 the RCSB Protein Data Bank (PDB, www.pdb.org) has not registered the deposition of any new folds [6]. Despite the huge number of folds theoretically possible [7], many believe that protein fold space is nearly complete, at least for single-domain globular proteins [8–11]. 
Although similarities between protein structures are often visibly apparent, classifying protein structure suffers from three main hurdles: deciding where the boundaries of a domain lie, how to group similar structures together, and when a structure is ‘too’ different to be part of a group [11]. The first comprehensive attempt to group protein domains by structural similarity was in 1976 when patterns were categorized across a set of 31 globular proteins [4]. Since then, there have been three leading databases that have specialized in categorization of protein structure into fold families: SCOP [12], CATH [13] and Dali [14]. 
The Structural Classification of Proteins database (SCOP) started as a manual effort, with visual inspection used to identify domains and classify them based on evolutionary relationships [12]. The structures were first placed into all-a, all-ß or mixed aß classes based on the overall secondary structure content, then grouped by shared function or structural features irrespective of their sequence similarity. Next, they were grouped based on sequence similarity, and finally by the nature of the conserved topologies. Due to increasing speed with which protein structures were being solved, this eventually became a partially automated effort along with refinement of the classification definitions [15]. CATH derives its name from the classification system it uses: C, class; A, architecture; T, topology; H, homologous superfamily [13]. The systems uses fully automated sequence alignments, structure comparisons and domain definitions, with homology detected at the 35% sequence identity limit. Dali first determines the presence of a domain depending on how compact it is and uses a neural network to perform fully automated domain classifications [14]. 
Providing further testament to the challenge of categorizing structures, there are inconsistencies regarding how many of the domain structures have been siphoned into domain families by these protein domain databases. To perform a large-scale assessment across protein fold space, such conflict in the assignment of a structure to one domain family or another presents a problem. For this reason, the definition and classification of protein structures became a key part of the Dynameomics project: an initiative to simulate and catalogue the dynamics of representatives of all known protein folds (Fig. 1B) [16, 17]. 
Given the structural similarity observed through protein fold space, Dynameomics focuses on representatives of protein folds rather than all known protein structures, making the problem more tractable while still achieving sampling of fold space. In contrast, other ‘big’ science projects, such as the Human Genome and Human Proteome projects require waiting for the entire human genome and proteome to be catalogued [18]. Dynameomics began over a decade ago and 807 proteins of different topologies, representing essentially all known globular protein folds, have now been simulated at both room and high temperatures, totaling hundreds of terabytes of data (Fig. 1B). At the beginning of this effort, it was clear that discrepancies between the different protein domain databases presented a problem and some uniformity needed to be established. To catalogue the dynamics of all known protein domains we needed a consensus view of fold space. 
The motivation behind generation of a consensus domain dictionary (CDD) [19, 20] was to gather a set of representative protein structures that could be used to systematically investigate all of protein fold space and determine the principles of protein dynamics and folding. This structure-based dictionary should not be confused with the Conserved Domain Database [1, 21] that categorizes the primary sequences of protein domains from an evolutionary standpoint. 
The collation of all identified structural domains currently in SCOP, CATH and Dali into a consensus set was initially done in 2003 using a metadata approach [19]. This was then updated in 2009 to include any new protein folds discovered in that interim period [20]. The total number of metafolds increased by 595, reflecting not just newly discovered folds but also the refinement of structural classifications that occurred during this six year period [15, 22]. Consequently, there were some domains made obsolete, re-delineation of some domain boundaries, as well as a merging of domains and metafolds within the v2009 CDD. Once complete, there had been inclusion of 976 “new” metafolds, composed entirely of “new” domains that were not present in the v2003 CDD. 
After assimilating and filtering the information contained within our v2009 CDD, the final Dynameomics dataset contained 807 representative structures taken from metafolds that encompass 97% of all currently known protein structuresAs the goal of the Dynameomics initiative has been to perform atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of the native state and unfolding pathways of representative structures for all known globular protein domains, some of the metafolds included in the CDD were superfluous to our needs. Any non-globular proteins (i.e. transmembrane or fibrous proteins) were not included, but these were few (Fig. 2). Due to the limits of our modeling methods and computational power we restricted the study to the part of the proteome where domains were less than 450 residues and rejected those with multiple or large cofactors for which we had no parameters. These restrictions were seconded by the facts that few domains are larger than 450 residues [24] and, although parameters could be developed for the multiple or large cofactors, many domains with such cofactors are really a polypeptide wrapped around a cofactor, such that there is little conventional structure. Other reasons for rejection were experimental structures of suboptimal quality or with large regions of missing coordinates (Fig. 2). Further, there were 19 NMR structures that were initially included but when modeled were found to have unstable native states. All but five, which had alternative X-ray crystal structures that were substituted and simulated successfully, were removed from the study. The starting structures for these 14 rejected simulations were designated questionable. In total, 888 protein domains were rejected in response to the requirements of the Dynameomics project (Fig. 2). Of these 888 rejected metafolds, 672 were not simulated because they are not structural protein domains. These were the metafolds we rejected because their structures were irregular with little secondary structure, structural units that were unlikely to fold autonomously, or composite domains, where the domain of interest was interrupted by a second structural domain, i.e. discontinuous (Fig. 2). The v2009 CDD definitions and representative structures of the 1695 metafolds, along with the 807 representatives qualified as “suitable” domains and successfully simulated, can be accessed at http://www.dynameomics.org/external/Targetlist/ index.aspx. Overall, the majority of the rejected metafolds were eliminated because they are unable to be designated as autonomous domains or folds. 
Here we revisit the 888 rejected metafolds, as there are subsets that warrant further inspection, especially in light of the expanding knowledge of the existence of proteins with local or global regions that lack structure, the so-called intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) [25]. These subsets may assist us in adapting our definition of domains to include what now appears to be a continuum of structures from disordered to highly regular structure. The structures we rejected because they had regions of atoms that were experimentally invisible, were non-autonomous folders, or had irregular and unstable structure, could be part of the unfoldome [26]. To avoid including further complexity at this point, we continue to ignore transmembrane and fibrous proteins and focus on globular protein or constituent domains less than 450 residues in length. We survey here the resulting dataset of 755 rejected metafolds (Fig. 2) by reexamining discarded simulations and performing disorder predictions using the DISOPRED2 classifier [27]. 
In the latest rendition of the CDD, it was noted as surprising that 40% of the metafolds in the CDD were not autonomous structural units and were therefore not believed to be “real” domains [20]. However, in light of the recent progress made in understanding disordered proteins, which has led to the prediction that 40 – 50% of mammalian proteins contain disordered regions greater than 30 residues in length [26, 28], maybe this isn’t so surprising after all. The PDB itself has been surveyed for intrinsic disorder, with one conclusion being that completely ordered proteins are not that abundant in this structural database [29]. Approximately 40% of the structures in the PDB have short disordered regions, defined as a continuous region between 10 and 30 residues long [29]. It is not so unexpected then that, based on predictions made here using DISOPRED2 [27], some 34% of the 755 rejected metafolds contain putative disordered regions greater than 10 residues in length. Although undoubtedly some of these targets were quite rightly rejected on the basis of not being viable structural domains, it does appear that some may fall into the IDP category. As DISOPRED2 predictions are more biased towards identifying short disordered regions within globular proteins, this 34% is potentially an underestimate [27, 30]. 

Instability during an MD simulation is generally ascribed to structural or methodological errors, but this implies that domains are expected to always be as structurally cohesive as the model calculated from the experimental data. Initially, we had selected representatives from 821 metafolds as our target list. For a simulation to be considered stable it had to pass our quality control measures [16, 17]. However, 19 of these domains were found to be unstable, with some unpacking of the native structure and loss of secondary structure. All 19 starting structures were determined using NMR; five had alternative X-ray crystal structures and simulations beginning with these substitute structures were stable. Although none of these unstable targets has yet to be entered in the DisProt database of disordered structures [31], ten of these metafolds have putative or confirmed regions of disorder greater than ten residues. For half of these, the disorder forms a substantial part of the domain (>40%) and in two of the larger domains, longer disordered regions are observed (PDB ID: 1wgo and 7hsc) even though these account for a small fraction of the domain. Thus, while instability in an MD simulation can be due to methodological problems or a problematic starting structure, it can also result from true dynamically disordered regions. 
Unstable regions had disordered sequence signatures 
Six of the targets are predicted to have disordered regions that overlap with unstable regions (Fig. 3): PDB IDs: 1vpu, 1t23, 1q3j, 1fu9, 1k0h, 7hsc. The first, the HIV-1 protein U (Vpu) is an auxiliary protein that has already been noted within the intrinsically disorder community [32] as potentially one of the disordered proteins within the HIV-1 proteome. Vpu is a transmembrane protein, but the cytoplasmic domain (PDB ID: 1vpu) is a globular domain [33]. This domain has a high content of acidic residues and an ampipathic helix adjacent to the transmembrane region where disorder was predicted, both here and over a more extended region by others (Fig. 3A) [32]. These predictions correlate with the conformational variation and loss of structure exhibited in the simulation; this is evident both in the MD ensemble of conformations and the final resulting structure (Fig. 3A). Another example is the representative for the chromosomal protein MC1 fold (PDB ID: 1t23). This domain has regions that lose structure and unpack from the surface of the remaining folded ß-sheet; it is these regions that are predicted to be disordered (Fig. 3). The only discrepancy between the predicted disordered region and the simulation is the helix, which remained structured, although it did unpack from the surface of the ß-sheet. 
Examples of genuine instability 
There are a number of simulations that exhibited instability in regions predicted to be disorderd; but the agreement is likely coincidental as the simulations remain questionable because of the choice of starting structure and presence of cofactors and disulfide bonds. For example, simulations of the heat shock chaperone protein Hsc70 used the deposited average structure generated from an NMR ensemble (PDB ID: 7hsc) and show the front-facing ß­strands to be particularly unstable (Fig. 3B). Only one structure was deposited and it is a highly energy minimized average structure. This simulation was an oversight given the likelihood for artificiality in the average structure that, while reflecting the NMR ensemble well, predisposes it to instability as an isolated conformation. Although DISOPRED2 predicts a disordered region longer than 20 residues that coincides with the hinge in the helical region (Fig. 3B) where there are large-scale movements upon binding [34], it is difficult to judge whether it is the starting structure itself or the potential disorder propensity that is responsible for the instability we observed. Other questionable cases are the CCHC-type zinc finger domain (PDB ID: 1fu9) and the knottin-like antifungal peptide Alo-3 (PDB ID: 1q3j). In the absence of the metal ion, CCHC-type zinc fingers have been reported to be disordered [35], and they have primary sequence content biases typical of IDPs [36]. Hence, the predicted and MD observed disorder at the termini of 1fu9 is expected. However, the simulation of 1fu9 included a bound zinc ion, which induces structure [37], and, although having the characteristics of a disordered protein, this domain should have remained stable. The knottin fold of Alo-3 has a long flexible loop between strands ß1 and ß2 and, like many antimicrobial peptides, has an overall cationic charge. Again, the predicted disorder coincidental with the flexible loop was expected, given that other antimicrobial peptides have unstructured or extended structures under some conditions [38]. In this case, the secondary structure was lost rapidly during the simulation but the fold was retained due to the disulfide bonds. 
Structure or the lack of structure can be context-dependent 
Two proteins from bacteriophage ., protein W (PDB ID: 1hyw) and FII protein (PDB ID: 1k0h), with confirmed unstructured regions were also amongst those we noted to have disordered regions [39, 40]. In both cases we did not simulate the unstructured regions at the termini. However, in the case of protein FII, there was a second unstructured region detected experimentally that we did simulate. This second region was also predicted to be disordered and is located in the central loop between two ß-strands (Fig. 3B). 
The other unstable targets with shorter contiguous predicted disordered regions were found to have experimentally observed unstructured regions associated with them, often on the edges of the domain, for example the PKD domain of the VPS10 receptor, (PDB ID: 1wgo). These domains had either regions with random coil chemical shifts or missing coordinates in the PDB files for sets of terminal residues [39, 41]. Hence, in most cases the domains were simulated without these segments. It is plausible that some interactions between the fold and the unstructured regions are required to maintain the stability in these instances [17]; this could be the reason behind the extreme loss of secondary structure exhibited by 1k0h that was simulated with the unstructured N-terminus removed (Fig. 3B). 
Although poorly refined structures, potentially artifactual average NMR structures, or over-restrained structures could be a contributing factor to the instability observed, there was some correlation with the location of the putative disordered regions. Encouragingly, some of the targets with unstable simulations have since become established IDP cases. 

The sequence lengths of the “irregular” domains ranged from 31 to 412 residues with most clustered between 30 and 40 residues. Hence, many of the 87 “irregular” domains (Fig. 2) are small peptides and appear to consist of supersecondary structure (Fig. 1A) [4]. Some show truncated ßaß motifs, othersßßß and a folding units (Fig. 4A). It is difficult to know how to assign these structures when they represent the structural motifs found in most all domain structures. 
87% of the “irregular” folds were solution NMR structures with significant regions lacking in well-defined secondary structure. Approximately half of these folds have 30% or greater of their sequences predicted to be disordered, but with many being relatively short sequences. There are few that have predicted disordered regions exceeding 20 contiguous residues. Four of the irregular targets are currently listed in the DisProt database (Fig. 4A): the CCHCC (PDB ID: 1pxe), connexin43 (PDB ID: 1r5s), knottin (PDB ID: 1ha9), and cysteine a-hairpin motif (PDB ID: 1u97) folds. Only one fold, aptly named partially disordered protein At2g23090, has over 30 contiguous residues predicted as disordered, greater than 50% of its sequence, which corresponded with a lack of experimentally determined secondary structure (PDB ID: 1wvk) (Fig. 4A). However, although the coordinates were deposited in the PDB in 2004, there is no reference to an associated publication, nor is the protein included in DisProt. It is, however, a member of the SERF family (InterPro: IPR007513) [42]; a family of proteins that contain a high content of charged residues (aspartic acid, glutamic acid, lysine and arginine) that could be an interesting collection of potential IDPs. 

Experimental determination of protein structures is not without its flaws. One issue that is prevalent throughout the PDB for X-ray crystal structures is missing atomic coordinates where electron density is not detected or highly diffuse [27]. Most of the regions lacking electron density in crystal structures have amino acid compositions predicted to be disordered [29], and it is possible that a fraction of the observed secondary structure may have been induced by crystallization in complex with binding partners. This group of 85 “rejects” consisted entirely of such X-ray crystal structures, with missing coordinates for regions of seven residues or longer. The majority of these folds are single domains between 100 and 200 residues. Hence, a significant number of these rejected targets are expected to contain local disorder. 
In total, 46% of these 85 folds contained some disorder. Eight targets had at least 30 contiguous residues predicted to be disordered (Fig. 4B), with another 31 with shorter, predicted disordered regions, the majority of which correlated with the missing coordinates. Cases of particular interest were those predicted to have greater than 30 contiguous disordered residues and that are present in DisProt; there were three such targets in DisProt (PDB ID: 1bo1, 1qwy, 1y8q). 
For all eight targets with significant predicted disorder, the disorder coincided with the missing atomic coordinates. In a number of cases, regions outside the missing coordinates were also predicted to be disordered and correlated with lower secondary structure content (Fig. 4B). In many cases the disorder was mentioned in the corresponding literature. For example, the disorder propensity of a domain of the 17kDa protein (Skp) with an outer membrane protein H (OmpH)-like fold (PDB ID: 1u2m) has been investigated previously and is in agreement with the prediction obtained here [43]. Disordered residues were reported in the unbound form of the C-terminal domain of the pepsin inhibitor-3 (PI-3) protein (PDB ID: 1f32) and some were noted to become ordered upon formation of a complex with pepsin, although some disorder still remained in the complex [44]. 
Also interesting are the occurrences of missing coordinates that are not predicted to be disordered and not registered in DisProt. An example is the protein kinase-like fold of phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinase type IIß (PDB ID: 1bo1). There are two areas of the structure missing coordinates (Fig. 4B). DISOPRED2 predicts only one of the two missing segments to be disordered. The lag in inclusion into DisProt is likely a consequence of the manual curation required [45]. As for the disagreement with the predictions, it has been noted that DISOPRED2 often predicts some regions with missing coordinates to be ordered and, in some cases, they have been revealed to be regions with transient structure [30]. 
Although having missing electron density is the very reason many of these targets have been reported to contain disordered regions, it appears likely that the majority of these targets are typical globular domains with regions of local disorder. 
Non-autonomous domains, by their very nature of being unable to assume structured folds independently, are a logical group to scrutinize for disorder. The 585 folds labeled as “non­autonomous”, are not significantly larger than those folds in the other groupings, with only 11 containing over 450 residues. However, they typically form part of large complexes (PDB ID: 1eq2 in Fig. 4C). Most of these non-autonomous folds, being structured in the context of a huge complex or in the presence of binding partners, were rejected because they had large regions buried within a complex making them unlikely to form stable structure in isolation. Another 86 folds are composite domains where the structural unit is interrupted by structural elements from a second domain or chain. Examples of these folds are the Rossman, immunoglobulin-like, and citrate synthase domain 1 folds: PDB IDs 1eq2, 1i31 and 1css, respectively, in Figure 4C. Although it may seem strange to have structural units with spatially separated sequences, remember that these composite domains are present in the underlying databases as a consequence of the different methods used for categorization. For example, at one of the top-levels in the classification hierarchy of CATH, structures are grouped where they have a similar spatial arrangement of secondary structure elements, irrespective of chain directionality or continuity [46]. 
Disorder predictions were performed on the 488 continuous folds; the fragmented nature of the 86 composite domains prohibited meaningful sequence analysis. Some 182 of the 488 targets had predicted disordered regions at least ten residues in length and approximately 70 had missing coordinates, some coincidental with disordered regions as observed above for the crystal structures. Greater disorder was indicated in 43 of these folds, which were either listed in DisProt or had predictions for more than 30 contiguous disordered residues, or both. Three of these in particular, the C-terminal domain of topoisomerase II (1bjt), cAMP­responsive binding protein (CBP, 1kbh) domain, and heat shock locus HSLU (1ht2), have disorder predictions that correlate with regions already highlighted in DisProt (Fig. 4C). 
The CBP domain (PDB ID: 1kbh) is an established IDP [47]. A first of its kind, this fold representative was one of two domains that are disordered in isolation but become structured upon forming a heterodimer. The other domain is the receptor activator (ACTR) domain, which exists as a molten globule until it forms a complex with the CBP domain [48]. Although shown here in the complexed, structured form with the ACTR domain shaded in gray (Fig. 4C), NMR indicates that the unbound form of the CBP domain is 100% disordered [48]. The C-terminal domain of topoisomerase II (PDB ID: 1bjt) has a region of missing coordinates representing an acidic region sensitive to protease degradation, leading to the suggestion that it is disordered [49, 50]. The heat shock locus HSLU domain (PDB ID: 1ht2) has two predicted disordered regions, one that matches with missing coordinates in the X-ray crystal structures [51, 52] and both are listed in DisProt. 
Coupled folding and binding is synonymous with the presence of disorder in unbound states. Accordingly, these rejected non-autonomous folds have a high incidence of known and putative disordered regions. 

Much of what was believed for the last 50 years regarding the relationship between structure and function is now in question as more and more proteins with a local or global lack of structure are identified [25]. The dogma that the native, biologically active state is folded and structured is biased because of the limitations of experimental techniques. Although there were some exceptions to this rule, they were believed to be just that. However, there has been increasingly more evidence accruing over the last years that all is not what it first seemed [25]. 
It is possible that as we learn more, the folds we previously rejected for not being bona fide domains may be considered as such and we should be open to adapting or expanding the definition of domains. Many disordered proteins have some fold or structure, albeit less compact than the “typical” native states of globular proteins, with many able to form different conformations with different binding partners. Perhaps, this is an indication we should start to consider “dynamic domain” families? After all, conservation of disordered regions has been demonstrated [53]. Moreover, some disordered regions have already shown attributes consistent with domains, leading to consideration of disordered domain classification [54]. However, at the start of such a revolution in understanding protein structure, or non-structure, it becomes even more important to be able to confidently define domain boundaries and group similar folds together before including ‘dynamic’ or ‘disordered’ protein fold families. If the complexity of attempting to categorize well-structured proteins into domain families has taught us anything, we can be sure that as the gaps in protein fold space are filled, defining a domain will only become more challenging. 

In our Dynameomics project we generated a consensus set of protein folds and selected targets based on the physical attributes of what constituted a globular structural domain. In the course of this work, it became clear that – in some cases - there was much ambiguity as to what qualifies as a domain and what does not. Many of the structures assigned to domain families in CATH, SCOP and Dali were not strictly domains in a structural sense. When we updated our CDD in 2009, the field of intrinsically disordered proteins was still an emerging field. Inspection of our rejected targets here revealed that many contain disordered regions. Fortunately, our consensus approach, along with manual inspection, eliminated many of the domains with confirmed or putative disorder. This reiterates how important it was to survey and re-qualify our consensus data prior to Dynameomics. 
Re-examination of our rejected targets here not only demonstrates the importance of filtering structural databases and applying a consistent descriptor for structural domains, it also raises questions for the near future. At some point we will gather sufficient knowledge to consider categorization of IDPs into domain families, a somewhat daunting notion. The challenge of structural domain categorization is only going to become more complex. The proteome is now seen as existing on a continuum of varying structural content, with structure not necessarily present under physiological conditions, and disorder and order interchangeable states dependent upon the environment and protein interactions. 
So when is a domain really a domain? And if the native state isn’t always the folded state, which state do we use to determine membership in a domain family? Although our definition of a domain may need to be adapted and expanded, we can take comfort that, for now, when focusing on typical globular domains one only needs to ensure appropriate filtering of the data. 


Protein kinase R (PKR) is a critical host restriction factor against invading viral pathogens. 
However, this molecule is inactivated in the cells infected with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), an economically devastating pathogen to the world swine industry. Here, we report that this event is to suppress cellular in.ammation and is mediated by the viral replicase protein nsp1ß. We show that nsp1ß is a stress-responsive protein, enters virus-induced stress granules (SGs) during infection, and repurposes SGs into a proviral platform, where it co-opts the SG core component G3BP1 to interact with PKR in a regulated manner. RNA interference silencing of G3BP1 or mutation of speci.c nsp1ß residues (VS19GG) can abolish the antagonization of PKR activation. The viral mutant carrying the corresponding mutations induces elevated level of PKR phosphoryla­tion and pronounced production of in.ammatory cytokines (e.g., tumor necrosis factor­a, interleukin [IL]-6, and IL-8), whereas small-interfering RNA knockdown of PKR or treatment with C16, a PKR inhibitor, blocks this effect. Thus, PRRSV has evolved a unique strategy to evade PKR restriction to suppress host in.ammatory responses. 
PKR j stress granules j PRRSV j in.ammation j nsp1ß 
Eukaryotic cells employ an amazingly wide variety of intracellular defenses to restrict invading viral pathogens. At the virus–host interface, one such critical host player is the protein kinase R (PKR), a 551-amino acid-long serine threonine kinase (1, 2). This protein was initially discovered as a key component of interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes (3, 4) and later identi.ed as a pattern-recognition receptor that speci.cally recog­nizes double-stranded RNAs (dsRNA) (5, 6), a common intermediate produced during infections of both DNA and RNA viruses. Structurally, PKR is composed of two tan­dem evolutionarily conserved dsRNA-binding motifs (DRBMs) in the N terminus, an effector/catalytic kinase domain (KD) in the C terminus, and a middle .exible linker region connecting the two domains (2, 6, 7). Binding of DRBMs to viral dsRNAs or 50 triphosphate RNAs induces conformational changes of PKR, leading to autophos­phorylation of its KD (8, 9). Alternatively, PKR can be activated via heterodimerization by an endogenous dsRNA binding protein, namely PKR-activating protein (PACT) (8). 
The activated PKR phosphorylates the a-subunit of eukaryotic translation initiation fac­tor 2 (eIF2a) to induce general translation arrest and to stimulate formation of stress gran­ules (SGs) (7, 10), a kind of nonmembrane bound cytoplasmic aggregate that mainly include stalled translation initiation complexes, together with nucleating factors like Ras GTPase-activating protein-binding protein 1 (G3BP1), T cell intracytoplasmic antigen 1 (TIA1), and many others (11, 12). Noticeably, SGs are increasingly emerging as a critical signaling platform for antiviral immunity and a key regulator of PKR activation (10, 13). Additionally, the activated PKR critically mediates the induction of interferons and modu­lates cellular in.ammatory responses to build up an antiviral state by inducing sustained activation of NF-.B via activating I.B kinase (IKK) and others (14–16). 
To overcome PKR restriction, many viruses have evolved various strategies (2). They specify viral products to either interact directly with PKR (17–19), or sequester and degrade dsRNA (20, 21), or target host PKR regulators, such as ADAR1, P58IPK, and PACT (22–24). The focus of this report is the interplay of PKR signaling with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), an economically devastating swine pathogen and a positive-stranded RNA virus in the family Arteriviridae of the order Nido­virales (25, 26). PRRSV has remained a major threat to the worldwide swine production ever since its .rst emergence in late 1980s (27). One of the most prominent features of PRRSV is subversion of host immunity, as manifested by crippled induction of interferon and in.ammation, leading to inef.cient cytotoxic T cell responses (26, 28, 29). Conse­quently, the currently available PRRSV vaccines are unable to induce sterilizing immunity (30), and the viral persistence in turn facilitates recombination among different strains and allows selection of immune escape mutants in the .eld (30, 31). 
Signi.cance 
Evolutionarily conserved protein kinase R (PKR) is a powerful mediator of antiviral responses. Enigmatically, PKR activity is disabled by porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) during infection, while the virus still allows the phosphorylation of its substrate eIF2a. Here, we show that this selective targeting of PKR signaling down-regulates cellular in.ammatory responses. Mechanistically, PRRSV takes advantage of virus-induced stress granules (SGs) and reprograms the antiviral SGs into a proviral platform by utilizing viral replicase protein nsp1ß to co-opt G3BP1 to inhibit PKR activation. These .ndings shed light on the mechanisms of PRRSV-mediated suppression of cellular in.ammation, which might help in rationale design of vaccine, and reveal a unique strategy for viral evasion of PKR and SG restriction. 

Interestingly, the activity of PKR is disabled in PRRSV-infected cells while the virus still allows the phosphorylation of its substrate eIF2a (32–34). We have previously reported that the eIF2a phosphorylation is conducive to utilization of ATF4 for viral replication (34). Here, we show that the primary pur­pose of this selective targeting of PKR signaling is to suppress the cellular in.ammatory responses. Strategically, PRRSV repur­poses antiviral SGs into a proviral platform to overcome the PKR restriction. The details are described below. 
Identification of PRRSV Replicase Protein nsp1ß as a Critical Viral Antagonist of PKR. To understand the temporal dynamics of PKR phosphorylation, we infected MARC-145 cells, an in vitro supporting cell line, and primary porcine alveolar macrophages (PAMs), the major in vivo target, with PRRSV strain JXwn06. Despite the presence of large amounts of dsRNAs (Fig. 1A and B), the PKR phosphorylation remained at basal level throughout the infection in both cell types (Fig. 1C and D). Moreover, the infected cells were able to inhibit poly(I:C)-induced PKR phosphorylation (Fig. 1E and F, lane 4), whereas treatment with poly(I:C) alone resulted in a sharp increase of phosphorylated PKR (p-PKR) (Fig. 1E and F, lane 2), indicating that the inability of PRRSV to activate PKR is not due to a defect of host cells, but rather attributed to a mechanism exerted by the virus itself. 

The PRRSV replicase nsp1ß is a critically viral antagonist of PKR. (A and B) Production of dsRNAs in MARC-145 and PAMs infected with PRRSV strain JXwn06 at an MOI of 0.1. The cells were stained with antibodies to dsRNA and to PRRSV N protein at 18 hpi and examined by a Nikon A1 confocal micro­scope, and the images are representative of at three independent experiments. Oil objective: 100×; zoom in 1× (A)or 2× (B). (C and D) Western blot analysis of PKR phosphorylation in PRRSV-infected MARC-145 cells and PAMs with antibodies to phosphorylated-PKR (p-PKR), PKR, ß-actin, and N protein. Poly(I:C) 
(1.5 µg/mL) as a positive control was used to treat MARC-145 cells for 12 h or PAMs for 6 h. (E and F) Effect of PRRSV infection on poly(I:C)-induced PKR phos­phorylation. MARC-145 and PAMs were infected or mock-infected with PRRSV at an MOI of 0.1, and at 24 (MARC-145) or 12 hpi (PAMs), the cells were treated with poly(I:C) at a concentration of 1.5 µg/mL for 12 or 6 h before being collected for Western blot analyses. (G) Dose-dependent effect of nsp1ß on PKR phosphorylation. HEK-293FT cells seeded in six-well plates were transfected to express increasing amount of HA-nsp1ß. At 24 h posttransfection, the cells were treated with poly(I:C) (1.5 µg/mL) for 12 h before being collected for Western blot analysis. The relative band density of p-PKR was normalized to the total PKR and then the loading control ß-actin, and then compared to the corresponding mock control, and expressed as p-PKR(+/ ). 

Nsp1ß is sorted into PRRSV-induced SGs during infection. (A) Time-course analysis of G3BP1 and nsp1ß distribution. MARC-145 cells on coverslips were infected with PRRSV strain JXwn06 at an MOI of 0.1. At the indi­cated time points, the cells were stained with antibodies to the indicated protein. (B) Coloc­alization analysis of nsp1ß with nsp2 or nsp9 at 24 hpi. (C) Colocalization analysis of nsp1ß with G3BP1 or TIA1 at 24 hpi. (D) Colocaliza­tion analysis of G3BP1 with nsp2, nsp9, or 
dsRNA at 24 hpi. (E) Colocalization analysis of G3BP1 with PRRSV RNAs. MARC-145 cells were infected with PRRSV at an MOI of 0.1, and at 
24 hpi, the viral negative-and positive-strand RNA were detected by the RNAscope in situ hybridization, and SGs were stained against G3BP1. The images were acquired by Nikon A1 confocal microscope and processed by 

Nsp1ß Is Sorted into PRRSV-Induced SGs During Infection. To understand the mechanism of how nsp1ß executes its function, we investigated the temporality of nsp1ß subcellular location during infection. The time-course studies revealed that nsp1ß exhibited a dynamic localization property (Fig. 2A). It emerged around 7 h postinfection (hpi) in the cytoplasm with a diffusive distribution pattern, and then quickly shifted to discrete puncta around 9 hpi, followed by accumulation in the nucleus around 12 hpi (Fig. 2A). At 24 hpi, nsp1ß was distributed mostly in the nucleus, but with a substantial portion in the cytoplasm as strikingly discrete puncta (Fig. 2A). Surprisingly, the nsp1ß­containing puncta did not colocalize with the viral core repli­case proteins nsp2 or nsp9 (Fig. 2B), suggesting that it is not recruited to the viral replication and transcription complex, but rather somewhere else. 
The cytoplasmic staining pattern of nsp1ß is reminiscent of that of SGs. In line with this hypothesis, PRRSV is known to be capable of inducing stable SGs during infection (33, 35). As pre­dicted, we observed a perfect colocalization relationship between nsp1ß and the SG markers G3BP1 and TIA1 in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2C). The SGs emerged at around 8 to 9 hpi and were maintained throughout the infection (Fig. 2A). Meanwhile, the expression and localization dynamics of nsp1ß coincided with the SG kinetics (Fig. 2A). However, PRRSV-induced SGs did not colocalize well with the viral replication and transcription complex (Fig. 2D), virus-induced dsRNAs (Fig. 2D), or viral RNAs (Fig. 2E). Thus, the .ndings reveal a previously unrecog­nized localization for cytoplasmic nsp1ß during infection. 
PRRSV nsp1ß Is a Stress-Responsive Protein and Colocalizes with PKR in SGs During Infection. We next investigated how nsp1ß enters SG during infection. Since PRRSV prefers to induce a stress environment (e.g., induction of unfolded protein responses, phosphorylation of eIF2a, and so forth) conducive to replication (34), we hypothesized that nsp1ß mightbea stress-responsive protein. If this is the case, then exposure of nsp1ß in an arti.cial stress condition should allow it to enter SG. Indeed, treatment of MARC-145 cells with dithiothreitol (DTT), an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress inducer, readily led to relocation of ecto­pically expressed nsp1ß to SGs (Fig. 3A, Right). In contrast, PRRSV nsp4 and nsp9 were not responsive to this stimulus (Fig. 3A). Treatment with other ER stress inducers (arsenite [Ars] and thapsigargin [TG]) obtained the same result (Fig. 3B). Thus, the sorting of nsp1ß into SGs is an intrinsic property of this 



and colocalizes with PKR in SGs during infec-
CD 
tion. 

molecule; it does not require other viral factors, but rather depends on the cellular stress itself. 
PKR was also relocalized to PRRSV-induced SGs (Fig. 3C). This observation is consistent with previous reports that PKR is a stress-responsive protein and that its activation is dependent on SGs (10, 13, 36). In infected cells, PKR colocalized well with nsp1ß and the SG markers, whereas in mock-infected cells it exhibited a diffusive distribution (Fig. 3C). In transfected cells, nsp1ß did not colocalize with PKR, but they became colocalized once the cells were stressed with SG inducers (e.g., DTT or Ars) (Fig. 3D). Thus, these .ndings suggest that SGs are likely the battleground for nsp1ß to counteract PKR. 
Regulated Interaction between nsp1ß and PKR. It is likely that there is an interaction between nsp1ß and PKR. We tested this hypothesis by coimmunoprecipitation assay (co-IP). The anti­bodies to PKR could readily pull down nsp1ß from PRRSV-infected MARC-145 cell lysates (Fig. 4A), and the same was true under the condition of transfection (Fig. 4C, lane 5). The nsp1ß-binding region was further mapped by construction of PKR truncation mutants containing only the DRBM or the KD (Fig. 4B). WT PKR and its derivatives (Flag-DRBM and Flag-KD) were expressed either individually or in combination with HA-nsp1ß in HEK-293FT cells. The co-IP assay showed that the mutant Flag-DRBM retained the ability to interact with nsp1ß to the level of full-length PKR (Fig. 4C, lane 6), whereas the mutant Flag-KD failed to interact (Fig. 4C,lane 7), suggesting that DRBM is the key region for binding to nsp1ß. 
To test whether the interaction requires any eukaryotic factor, we carried out the in vitro binding assay. The relevant proteins were expressed in a bacterial system. Speci.cally, PRRSV nsp1ß was expressed as a GST fusion protein, whereas PKR or its deriva­tives (DRBM and KD) were fused to the C terminus of bacterial chaperone trigger factor (TF) to promote protein solubility (Fig. 4B). GST-nsp1ß was puri.ed with glutathione beads to pull down PKR or derivatives from bacterial lysates, whereas GST alone served as a negative control (Fig. 4D, lanes 5 to 8). To our surprise, GST-nsp1ß was unable to pull down the full-length PKR (TF-PKR) (Fig. 4D,lane 10),but the TF-DRBM mutant was abundantly recovered (Fig. 4D,lane 11).This resultis in a stark contrast with that from the above co-IP assay using mam­malian cells (Fig. 4C), suggesting that a conformational change of PKR is likely necessary for the interaction. Consistent with this notion, nsp1ß showed partial colocalization with Flag-DRBM in the cytoplasm, but not with the full-length Flag-PKR or Flag-KD in transfected cells (Fig. 4E). Together, these results suggest that the nsp1ß-PKR interaction is regulated and facilitated by cellular factors during infection. 
The SG Component G3BP1 Promotes the nsp1ß-PKR Interaction. 
As nsp1ß was sorted into SGs during PRRSV infection, the induc­tion of SG or its core components, such as G3BP1 and TIA1, 
 
Interaction of nsp1ß with PKR in vitro. GST and GST-nsp1ß were bacterially expressed puri.ed with glutathione beads and used to pull down TF, TF-PKR, TF-DRBM, and TF-KD from bacterial lysates, followed by Western 
blot analysis with antibodies to TF. A ponceau staining shows the input.  MARC-145 cells were transfected to express Flag-PKR, Flag-DRBM, and Flag-KD either individually or in combination with HA-nsp1ß. At 24 h post­transfection, the cells were stained with anti­bodies to the epitope tags. The images were acquired by Nikon A1 confocal microscope and processed by ImageJ. Oil objective: 60×; zoom in 3×. Arrows indicate co-localization regions. 

might promote the nsp1ß–PKR interaction. In agreement with this idea, treatment with the SG inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) led to dramatically reduced pulldown of nsp1ß by antibodies to PKR (Fig. 5A). In the RNA interference (RNAi) assay, knock­down of G3BP1 signi.cantly crippled the nsp1ß–PKR interaction in PRRSV-infected MARC-145 cells (Fig. 5B), whereas the effect of TIA1 depletion was less prominent (Fig. 5C). In the cotransfec­tion condition, we found that the DTT treatment signi.cantly enhanced the nsp1ß–PKR interaction, as demonstrated by co-IP assay (Fig. 5D). Thus, the above results suggest that SG formation plays an important role in promoting the nsp1ß–PKR interaction and that G3BP1 is a critical player. 
G3BP1 has been shown to interact with PKR (13). Thus, it is possible that it also interacts with nsp1ß to provide a bridging function. Indeed, the antibodies to G3BP1 could pull down nsp1ß in both infection and transfection conditions (Fig. 6A and B). In contrast, the antibodies to TIA1 could pull down nsp1ß only in an infection condition, but poorly in a transfection condi­tion (Fig. 6B and C). We investigated whether the interaction is correlated with SG status. As shown in SI 
Appendix,Fig.S2,over­expression of G3BP1 tended to induce SG formation in trans­fected cells, an observation that is consistent with a previous report (37), and a colocalization relationship with nsp1ß could be observed when coexpressed. In contrast, TIA1 failed to do so, sug­gesting that the nsp1ß–TIA1 interaction is more dependent on SG formation. Moreover, knockdown of G3BP1 signi.cantly decreased the interaction of nsp1ß with TIA1 in the infection condition (SI 
Appendix,Fig.S3A), but depletion of TIA1 did not affect much the nsp1ß–G3BP1 interaction (SI 
Appendix,Fig. 
S3B). Thus, the nsp1ß–TIA1 interaction is more contingent on G3BP1, highlighting a critical role of G3BP1 in the interaction. 
We performed an in vitro binding assay to investigate whether G3BP1 is suf.cient to bridge the nsp1ß–PKR interaction. Speci.­cally, the His6-tagged G3BP1 was bacterially expressed, puri.ed, and then incubated with GST-nsp1ß beads overnight at 4 °C. GST alone did not bind to G3BP1 (Fig. 6D, lanes 5 to 8), whereas GST-nsp1ß was able topulldown His6-G3BP1 in a dose-dependent manner (Fig. 6D,lanes 9to 12).As expected, the puri­.ed GST-G3BP1 was able to pull down TF-PKR and TF-DRBM (Fig. 6E, lanes 10 and 11). Thus, G3BP1 can bind directly to both nsp1ß and PKR. In the presence of puri.ed His6-G3BP1, GST­nsp1ß could readily pull down TF-PKR (Fig. 6F,lane 10),suggest­ing the formation of a triple complex. Thus, G3BP1 serves as a direct adaptor to promote the nsp1ß–PKR interaction.  The SG formation promotes the nsp1ß-PKR interaction. (A) MARC­145 cells were mock-infected with DMEM or infected with PRRSV at an MOI of 0.1. At 24 hpi, the cells were treated with CHX (50 µM) for 3 h or mock-treated with DMSO. The co-IP assay was carried out with rabbit anti-PKR, followed by Western blot with rabbit anti-PKR, mouse anti-nsp1ß and anti-GAPDH. (B) The same as A, except that the cells were .rst transfected with siRNA-G3BP1 (siG3BP1) and siRNA-NC (siNC), followed by PRRSV infection at 24 h posttransfection. A rabbit antibody was used for isotype control. (C) The same as B, except for siRNA-TIA1 (siTIA1) and siRNA-NC. (D) HEK-293FT cells were transfected to coexpress nsp1ß and PKR. After 24 h posttransfec­tion, the cells were treated with PBS or DTT for 1 h. The co-IP assay were performed with rabbit anti-Flag, followed by Western blot with mouse anti­bodies to Flag, HA, or GAPDH. Quantitative analysis is shown (Right). The relative band density of immunoprecipitated nsp1ß in the treated group was measured by fold-changes compared to that in the untreated group after being individually normalized against immunoprecipitated PKR and then nsp1ß and GAPDH in the corresponding input panel. Statistical analy­sis was performed by two-tailed Student’s t test, and error bars indicate means ± SDs. Asterisks (*) indicate the statistical signi.cance: *P < 0.05; **P < 0.01; ***P < 0.001; NS, no signi.cance. 
G3BP1 Contributes to nsp1ß-Mediated Inhibition of PKR Activ­ity. We next tested the effect of RNAi silencing of G3BP1 on PKR phosphorylation during infection in the presence or absence of poly(I:C) stimulation. When G3BP1 was knocked down, PRRSV failed to inhibit poly(I:C)-induced PKR phos­phorylation (Fig. 7A, lane 8). This was also true in transfected cells expressing nsp1ß (Fig. 7B, lane 8). In contrast, TIA1 virus recovery. Only two mutants (VS19GG and GGK16AAA) were successfully rescued. The mutant GGK16AAA displayed a growth property similar to the parental virus in both MARC-145 cells and PAMs, whereas the growth of VS19GG was reduced (Fig. 9A and B). Similar to that in the transfection condition, the interaction of nsp1ß with G3BP1 and PKR were almost dimin­ishedin VS19GG infectedcells (Fig. 9C and D). This was accom­panied by a concurrent elevation of PKR phosphorylation in both cell types (Fig. 9E and F), as opposed to both WT and the mutant nsp1ß GGK16AAA . Thus, nsp1ß is responsible for inhibiting PKR activation dur­ing infection. 
The Mutant nsp1ß VS19GG Induces Inflammatory Responses via G3BP1-PKR Axis. To investigate the biological signi.cance, we measured the production of interferons and in.ammatory cytokines by RT-qPCR in PRRSV-infected cells. In all treat­ments, the CT values for IFN-a mRNA were near or over 35 cycles  , and therefore the fold-changes are not reliable. In contrast, production of IFN-ß mRNA was highly inducible  As compared with WT virus, there was a slight up-regulation of IFN-ß mRNA, but for both mutants, suggesting that the mutational effect is less likely due to PKR activation. On the other side, despite a reduced viral growth, the mutant G3BP1 contributes to nsp1ß-mediated inhibition of PKR activation. 
(A) MARC-145 cells were transfected with siRNAs targeting G3BP1 or scram­bled siRNA (siNC). At 36 h posttransfection, the cells were infected with PRRSV strain JXwn06 at an MOI of 0.1 for 36 h before being treated with poly(I:C) for 12 h. The cells were then subject to Western blot analysis with antibodies to the indicated proteins. (B) The same as A, except cells were transfected to express HA-nsp1ß.(C and D) The same as A and B, except that siRNAs were used to target TIA1. The signals of protein bands were determined by ImageJ. The relative abundance of p-PKR in each treat­ment was expressed as fold-changes compared to the intensity of p-PKR in the .rst lane after being normalized against PKR and then ß-actin in the same lane. Statistical analysis was performed by two-tailed Student’s t test, and error bars indicate means ± SDs. Asterisks (*) indicate the statistical signi.cance: *P < 0.05; ***P < 0.001; NS, no signi.cance. 
Repurposing SG into a Proviral Platform. Cytoplasmic SGs are increasingly emerging as a critical immune signaling platform to detect and restrict invading viral pathogens (10, 11). As so, cation of the mutant VS19GG (Fig. 10). This seemingly confusing result may be explained by WT nsp1ß normally inhibiting the antiviral function of G3BP1 via interaction, whereas the mutant nsp1ß VS19GG fails to do so due to loss of interaction (Fig. 8B and C). This notion is in line with the observation that the mutant VS19GG had a reduced growth rate in both cell types (Fig. 9A and B). Certainly, this is a different story from PKR antagonization and warrants further exploration in the future. Overall, these results suggest a strategy of two birds (G3BP1 and PKR) with one stone (nsp1ß). 
Insight into the Inflammation Regulation by PRRSV. Our results also unexpectedly revealed a regulatory mechanism for PRRSV-mediated suppression of host cellular in.ammatory responses. PRRSV is a rather “sneaky” virus, and the infections often lead to low level production of in.ammatory cytokines in the early infec­tion (26, 28, 29). Concomitantly, induction of cellular immunity is delayed, usually 1 mo following infection, and it is maintained at a low level, contributing to viral persistence in vivo (26, 30). 


Despite the identi.cation of several in.ammation-inhibitory viral proteins (e.g., nsp1a, nsp4, and nsp11), the detailed mechanisms have remained poorly de.ned (28, 29). On the other hand, PKR is a powerful host restriction factor and possesses multiple func­tions in antiviral immunity, including restricting the cross-species transmission of several viruses (5, 53, 54). Enigmatically, this molecule is shut off by PRRSV. By taking advantage of a nsp1ß mutant, we showed that the selective targeting of PKR signaling is to suppress cellular in.ammation. Despite slightly reduced virus growth, the viral mutant induced an elevated level of PKR phos­phorylation and pronounced production of in.ammatory cyto­kines (e.g., TNF-a, IL-6, and IL-8) (Fig. 9A and B). In contrast, either siRNA knockdown of PKRortreatment with PKRinhibi­tor C16 could block this effect (Fig. 10). Thus, our results suggest a strategy of how PRRSV regulates cellular in.ammatory responses. 
Expansion of PRRSV nsp1ß Functions. PRRSV nsp1ß is a multi-functional protein (55–58), and it displays a dynamic distribu­tion during PRRSV infection (Fig. 2A). It accumulates mainly in the cytoplasm in early infection and then mostly in the nucleus, with the cytoplasmic fraction as discrete puncta. It is now becoming clear that major function of nuclear nsp1ß is to cause cellular nuclear mRNA retention (56), and interestingly, loss of this nuclear location cripples the ability of nsp1ß to antagonize IFN-a (57). On the other side, the function of cytoplasmic nsp1ß has remained less characterized, except for its function as a protease to cleave off itself from viral polyprotein precursor and as a transacti­vator for frameshift expression of nsp2-TF and nsp2N (55, 58). Unexpectedly, our studies discovered a localization of nsp1ß in the cytoplasm and showed that the new mission for nsp1ß redis­tribution into SGs is to counteract PKR restriction to down-regulate cellular in.ammation andalsolikely todisarm G3BP1. Mutation of speci.c residues within nsp1ß could reverse this effect. Thus, our .ndings establish nsp1ß as a potential target for PRRSV vaccine development through modulating cellular in.am­matory responses. 
In summary, the .ndings reported here reveal a unique para­digm of how a RNA virus repurposes antiviral cellular organelle to evade PKR restriction, provide further insight into the PRRSV-mediated regulation of host in.ammatory responses, and identify a promising target for modifying current attenu­ated vaccines to control PRRSV infection. 
Reagents. MARC-145 and HEK-293FT cells were cultured in Dulbecco’smodi­.ed Eagle’smediumat 37 °Cwith 5% CO2, whereas primary PAMs from 1-mo-old SPF piglets were maintained in RPMI-1640 medium. The PRRSV strain JXwn06 (GenBank no: EF641008) was used a model organism. The commercial antibodies and chemicals are from various sources (i.e., Sigma-Aldrich, Thermo Fisher, Abcam, Proteintech). The plasmids were engineered by standard recombinant DNA proce­dures, and the derivatives were made by PCR-based site-directed or deletion muta­genesis. All the constructs were veri.ed by DNA sequencing. 
Quantitative PCR. Total cellular RNAs were reversed transcribed into cDNA by FastKing RT enzyme (Tiangen), and the relative qPCR was performed with the Applied Biosystems SYBR Select Master Mix (Thermo Fisher, #4472913). The cel­lular GAPDH was used as the internal control. 
RNAi. For each given gene, two siRNAs were designed to target different coding regions and transfected with Lipofectamine RNAiMAX. The cell viability was assessed with CellTiter 96 AQueous One Solution Reagent (Promega), and the knockdown ef.ciency was assessed by Western blot. For transfection/infection assay, MARC-145 cells were transfected with indicated siRNAs for 24 to 36 h before being infected with indicated viruses. 
1218 24 36 HPI **P < 0.01; ***P < 0.001; NS, no signi.cance. 
RNAscope In Situ Hybridization. In situ hybridization assay was employed to detect both negative and positive PRRSV RNAs in virus-infected MARC-145 cells by using the RNAscope Multiplex Fluorescent Detection Reagents v2 Kit (ACD, #323110), as described previously (34). A total of eight double-Z branched pairs were designed to detect the positive-sense genome by targeting the highly con­served N gene, whereas a total of 20 double-Z branched pairs targeting the regions of PRRSV ORF6, ORF7, and 30 UTR to detect the negative strands. The hybridization procedure was performed according to the manufacturer’s instruction. 
Immunoprecipitation. The treated MARC-145 or HEK-293FT cells in six-well plates were harvested and lysed in Nonidet P-40 buffer (0.5% Nonidet P-40, 150 mM NaCl, 50 mM Tris HCl, pH 8.0) containing protease inhibitors (Sigma, #P8340). After being clari.ed by centrifugation at 12,000 rpm for 20 min, the supernatants were precleared with protein A/G Sepharose beads (Santa Cruz, #sc-2003) before being incubated with 3 to 5 µL indicated antibodies and pro­tein A&G Sepharose beads overnight at 4 °C. The beads were washed and then subject to SDS/PAGE and Western blot analysis. 
Immunofluorescence. The treated cells on coverslips were .xed with 3.7% para­formaldehyde and permeabilized with 0.2% Triton X-100 in PBS. They were then incubated with proper primary antibodies in a humid chamber, followed by second­ary antibodies. Nuclear DNA was stained with DAPI (Thermo Fisher, #62248) for 10 min. The cells were imaged using a Nikon A1 confocal microscope.  Viruses depend on host cellular resources to replicate. Interaction between viral and host proteins is essential for the pathogens to ward off immune responses as well as for virus propagation within the infected cells. While different viruses employ unique strategies to interact with diverse sets of host proteins, the multifunctional RNA-binding protein G3BP1 is one of the common targets for many viruses. G3BP1 controls several key cellular processes, including mRNA stability, translation, and immune responses. G3BP1 also serves as the central hub for the protein–protein and protein– RNA interactions within a class of biomolecular condensates called stress granules (SGs) during stress conditions, including viral infection. Increasing evidence suggests that viruses utilize distinct strategies to modulate G3BP1 function—either by degradation, sequestration, or redistribution—and control the viral life cycle positively and negatively. In this review, we summarize the pro-viral and anti-viral roles of G3BP1 during infection among different viral families. 

unfavorable growth conditions, including viral infection. When stressed, cells selectively Academic Editor: Alfredo Castello transcribe and translate stress-responsive genes while arresting global protein synthesis to conserve energy [1–4]. Upon viral entry, cells trigger innate response pathways to
Received: 9 December 2022 
eliminate or prevent viral replication [5]. The frst line of host defense against viral infec-
tion is the recognition of viral RNA or DNA by pathogen-associated molecular patterns 
(PAMPs) through different sensors [6]. For example, viral nucleic acids can be detected 
Published: 6 February 2023 

by retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptors (RLRs), Toll-like receptors (TLRs), and cGMP/cAMP synthase (cGAS) [7–12]. These proteins detect and distinguish viral vs. cellular nucleic acids based on the structural differences, such as the presence of a 50­Copyright: © 2023 by the authors. triphosphate (50-PPP) moiety in viral RNAs [13]. In turn, viruses have developed adaptive Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. mechanisms to counteract host innate responses for successful propagation [14]. Even the This article is an open access article most complex virus encodes only a few hundred proteins; thus, viruses must interact with 
distributed under the terms and 
host proteins to exploit their cellular machinery for effcient viral replication [14–16]. 
conditions of the Creative Commons 
Among the host proteins, ribosomes and translation factors are critical for viral pro-
Attribution (CC BY) license (https:// 
tein synthesis and mRNA binding proteins to stabilize viral RNA, and some proteins are 
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/ 
involved in the viral replication complexes. The Ras GTPase-activating (SH3 domain) 
 
protein-binding protein G3BP1 is an RNA-binding protein targeted by many viruses [17]. G3BP1 is highly conserved from yeast to humans and plays a key role in RNA metabolism, such as regulating the stability and translation of a subset of mRNAs, binding to spe­cifc transcripts during stress conditions, and activating interferon (IFN)-stimulated gene expression [18–21]. G3BP1 function is further modulated by post-translational modifca­tions and also implicated in many diseases such as cancer, neurodegeneration, and viral infection—the latter is the focus of this review [22–26]. 
G3BP1 and its paralog G3BP2 possess similar protein domain architecture composed of regions for protein, RNA and DNA interactions (Figure 1). These domains include N-terminal nuclear transport factor 2-like (NTF2L), followed by an acidic domain, proline­rich region (PxxP), an RNA recognition motif (RRM), and an arginine and glycine-rich region (RGG) at the C-terminus [27,28]. The N-terminal domains contain motifs for protein binding while the C-terminal domains bind nucleic acids. For instance, the NTF2L domain interacts with FGDF sequence motifs present in many proteins and the PxxP domain interacts with SH3 motifs. The RRM domain is essential for RNA binding and RGG domain increases RNA binding as well as mediates protein–protein interactions. The functions of G3BP1 and G3BP2 are redundant in some, but not all cases [29]. For example, knockdown of G3BP1 increases the expression of G3BP2 to compensate for the loss of G3BP1 expression and function, but not vice versa [23,29]. 

Emergent data suggest that G3BP1 is one of the key proteins that impact the viral life cycle both positively and negatively [30,31]. For example, some viruses require G3BP1 for effcient viral replication, while the replication of other viruses is negatively affected by G3BP1 expression. Well-studied functions of G3BP1 include participation in the innate response to infection through activation of viral nucleic acid sensors RIG-I and cGAS and as an essential component of stress granules (SGs) [29,30,32–35]. SGs are a class of cytoplasmic biomolecular condensates enriched with mRNA–protein complexes assembled in response to stress, including viral infection. Knockout of both G3BP1 and G3BP2 is necessary to completely inhibit SG formation induced by many stressors, implying their importance to form protein–protein and protein–RNA interactions within SGs [29]. Given that G3BP1 impacts the life cycle of many viruses, it is important to distinguish what specifc functional roles are played by G3BP1 at different infection stages. Here, we focus on the role of G3BP1 during viral infection and the various strategies utilized by viruses to exploit or counteract G3BP1 functions. 


G3BP1 regulates early innate responses through its ability to bind nucleic acids and proteins in these signaling pathways. G3BP1 facilitates the initial IFN-ß response by binding and augmenting the function of viral RNA and DNA sensing proteins in the cytoplasm. For example, the RGG domain of G3BP1 binds the RIG-I helicase domain and viral dsRNA to prevent RIG-I degradation and enhance Ifn-b mRNA expression [30]. G3BP1 also interacts with cGAS to form large complexes that enhance interaction with viral DNA to induce IFN [30,34,36]. The binding of the N-terminal region of cGAS with G3BP1 is required for activation of the RNA-dependent protein kinase PKR leading to co-localization as small cytoplasmic foci [35]. The local concentration of G3BP1, cGAS, and PKR within cytoplasmic foci is proposed to enhance PKR activity. G3BP1 is required for activation of cGAS as depletion of G3BP1 dramatically reduces DNA-induced IFN production [34]. 

These data suggest that G3BP1-mediated interactions with signaling molecules facilitate the initiation of downstream innate response pathway signaling. G3BP1 can also facilitate the expression and translation of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs). For example, G3BP1, G3BP2, and their binding partner Caprin1 positively regulate the translation of multiple ISGs in response to IFN (Figure 2a) [21]. 

G3BP1 Forms the Core of Stress Granules 
A well-known function of G3BP1 during stress stimuli is its involvement in SG as­sembly (Figure 2b). SGs assemble upon stress-induced translation arrest that results in the accumulation of free untranslated mRNAs and mRNA binding proteins in the cyto­plasm [37]. Upon stress, one of the following fve kinases is activated: double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-dependent PKR, protein kinase R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), heme-regulated inhibitor (HRI), general control nonderepressible-2 (GCN2), or microtubule affnity-regulating kinase 2 (MARK2). The activated kinase phosphorylates the translation initiation factor eIF2a subunit [38,39]. The initiation complex containing the phospho­rylated eIF2a becomes unavailable for recycling, which leads to a stall in translation initiation [40]. Once the elongating ribosomes run off from polysomes, the stalled transla­tion initiation results in a sudden infux of untranslated mRNAs in the cytoplasm. These untranslated mRNAs bound with ribonucleoproteins (mRNPs) cluster together with G3BP1, G3BP2, and several other RNA binding proteins to form RNA/protein-rich condensates in the cytoplasm. Several post-translational modifcations (PTMs) control the dynamics of SGs [33,41–46]. Of note, G3BP1 itself undergoes several post-translational modifcations, including phosphorylation, methylation, ubiquitination, and ADP-ribosylation during stress conditions [42,44,47]. G3BP1 and G3BP2 form the core protein–protein interaction network which binds translation factors, mRNA binding proteins, long and translationally incompetent mRNAs as well as specifc transcripts during stress conditions [19,48,49]. RNAi-mediated knockdown or genetic knockout of both G3BP1 and G3BP2 results in cells that do not form SGs in response to most stressors, emphasizing the importance of G3BP1/G3BP2 in SG assembly [29]. These data suggest that G3BP1/G3BP2 act as a scaffold that recruits other proteins into SGs [47,50]. 

Recent studies provided more mechanistic insights into the role of G3BP1 as the scaffold for SG assembly. G3BP1 is the central node of the protein–protein interaction network within SGs, where RNA serves as a molecular trigger for phase separation. In the normal state, G3BP1 adopts a compact, closed auto-inhibitory state with intramolecular interaction between acidic and arginine-rich regions. Increasing local RNA concentrations can increase their binding to G3BP1, relieving G3BP1 from the autoinhibitory state and resulting in more RNA recruitment and less aberrant RNA–RNA interaction [50–52]. In light of the viral infection, it may be possible that at the early infection stage, an increase in viral RNA concentration may relieve G3BP1 from its auto-inhibitory state, triggering G3BP1 condensation, with the protein serving as the scaffold to recruit other proteins/RNA required for viral replication. 


At least four distinct temporal patterns of SGs have been observed during infection with different viruses: (1) stable, (2) transient, (3) oscillating, or (4) no SGs (active blocking of SG induction) [53–55]. These patterns highlight the importance of modulating SGs upon virus infection (Table 1). As demonstrated by one of the earliest studies using Semliki Forest virus (SFV), infection-induced translation arrest results in the assembly of transient SGs. Given that some of the key anti-viral proteins (such as ADAR1, PARP13/ZAP, OAS, IRF3, IRF7, TBK1, and RNase L) localize to SGs and activate the anti-viral response, SGs may negatively affect viral replication [56–60]. Thus, viruses may target SGs not only to modulate G3BP1 function but also to disassemble SGs to counteract anti-viral mechanisms in the infected cells. On the other hand, the presence of SGs may facilitate the switch from viral translation to genome amplifcation by sequestering translation factors into the condensed state (Figure 3) [23]. 
Table 1. SG status during infection against different viruses. 

G3BP1 can either promote or inhibit the viral life cycle, but the molecular mechanisms are not completely understood. One way by which G3BP1 may regulate its function dur­ing infection is through post-translational modifcations. For example, ADP-ribosylated G3BP1 is crucial for SG assembly, given that chikungunya virus (CHIKV) actively reduces G3BP1 ADP-ribosylation, disrupting SGs with translation factors released from the con­densed state [47]. However, G3BP1 is also required for establishing CHIKV replication complexes, and post-translational modifcations required for this process have not been defned [23]. Thus, post-translationally modifed G3BP1 may act as an anti-viral protein, while the unmodifed or differently modifed G3BP1 could play a pro-viral role during CHIKV infection. Similarly, arginine methylation status of G3BP1 partly recruits Tudor domain-containing protein (TDRD3) to regulate innate immune response against enterovirus species [60]. Using polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid as a mimic for viral replication double-stranded intermediates, Kim et al. showed that G3BP1 is phosphorylated at tyrosine residue 40 by Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (BTK). Phosphorylation of G3BP1 by BTK is critical for dimerization and phase separation to limit viral spread [88]. Further clues are obtained from identifying the strategies that viruses employ to target G3BP1—i.e., sequestration, cleavage, or degradation—and modulate its function during infection (Figure 4). In general, viruses use their genome-encoded proteins to sequester G3BP1 if it is required for viral replication. On the contrary, viruses cleave G3BP1 when it exerts an anti-viral role (Table 2). Here, we describe the role of G3BP1 during specifc viral infections and the ways by which G3BP1 is targeted. 
G3BP1 controls several key cellular processes, including mRNA metabolism, ribosomal quality control, immune response, and SG assembly. G3BP1 facilitates replication of some viruses whereas it restricts viral spread in other viruses. Depending on the virus type, G3BP1 plays different roles in the viral life cycle, including (1) stabilizing viral RNA; 
(2) recruiting ribosomes to initiate viral RNA translation; (3) serving as a scaffold to build viral replication complexes; (4) assembling SGs; (5) stabilizing and enhancing the IFN-ß response; and (6) activating cGAS and RIG-I pathways. Here, we explore the mechanisms by which different viruses regulate G3BP1 function during infection. 



G3BP1 enhances the immune response against invading viruses by inducing the expression of IFN and translation of ISGs. In virus-infected cells, G3BP1 binds to dsRNA resulting from the viral replication intermediates through the RGG domain and elevates RIG-I induced IFN-ß mRNA expression [30]. In response to IFN, G3BP1, G3BP2, and Caprin 1 promote ISG translation to synthesize anti-viral factors. G3BP1 also assembles SGs in response to infection-mediated translation arrest and limits the availability of translation factors for viral protein synthesis. To counter these anti-viral functions, viruses target G3BP1—either cleaving or sequestering it during infection. Here we summarize the strategies shared by viruses in the Picornaviridae and Coronaviridae families to counteract host defense. 
Picornaviruses Inhibit G3BP1 Function through Protease-Mediated Cleavage Picornaviruses are small, non-enveloped, positive-sense RNA viruses that include EMCV, EV, PV, FMDV, and CVB3. G3BP1 negatively regulates Picornaviridae infection by binding the 30 untranslated regions (30UTRs) or Internal Ribosome Entry Site (IRES) regions of viral RNAs to inhibit viral replication [53,95]. To counteract these effects, the 3C protease or leader protein of these viruses cleaves G3BP1 between Q325 and Q326 at late infection stages. G3BP1 cleavage is essential for the expression of viral proteins, and expression of the non-cleavable G3BP1 Q325E mutant suppresses viral replication [61–69]. During Picornaviruses infection, PKR is activated by double-stranded RNA intermedi­ates, phosphorylates eIF2a, and induces SG formation. SGs are observed early in infection but disassembled at late stages of infection. SG disassembly correlates temporally with G3BP1 cleavage, and the expression of the non-cleavable G3BP1 Q325E mutant results in sustained IFN-ß mRNA expression and SG persistence. Consistent with the observed effect on G3BP1 cleavage, knockdown of G3BP1 increases viral protein synthesis and virus production, whereas G3BP1 overexpression shows an inhibitory effect [61,64–66]. FMDV, which uses the leader protein to cleave G3BP1, also causes SG disassem­bly. Catalytic mutant C41A or leaderless FMDV ineffciently inhibits arsenite-induced SG formation in infected cells [63]. FMDV infection also causes degradation of G3BP1 through autophagy [62]. Thus, protease-mediated cleavage or degradation of G3BP1 is 
the fundamental mechanism employed by Picornaviridae to restrict anti-viral activities of G3BP1. 
 Coronaviruses Modulate G3BP1 Function Either by Cleavage or Sequestration Coronaviridae is a family of enveloped viruses with large single-stranded positive-sense RNA genomes and includes PEDV and SARS-CoV-2. Similar to Picornaviridae, G3BP1 nega­tively regulates coronavirus infection. Overexpression of G3BP1 reduces viral replication, protein synthesis, and virus production, while G3BP1 knockdown enhances viral replica­tion. However, these viruses utilize different strategies to modulate G3BP1 function; for example, PEDV induces cleavage of G3BP1 between D168 and D169 by caspase-8 to regu­late SG dynamics in infected cells. Expression of non-cleavable G3BP1 results in persistent SGs and reduces viral replication, but the mechanism behind G3BP1-mediated reduction of viral replication remains unexplored [79,80]. SARS-CoV-2—the virus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic—modulates G3BP1 function by sequestration and condensation with the nucleocapsid protein. The intrin­sically disordered region (IDR) at the N-terminal region of nucleocapsid is required for condensation with G3BP1, and this IDR is also crucial for viral particle production. Though it is unclear whether SARS-CoV-2 induces SGs, G3BP1–nucleocapsid binding blocks the interaction of SG proteins such as PKR and USP10 with G3BP1 in arsenite-treated cells [82]. However, the role of G3BP1 remains unclear given the conficting reports on the effect of G3BP1 knockdown in structural protein and viral RNA levels [81–83,96]. Recent studies 
highlighted the potential anti-viral role of G3BP1 in the lung tissue of COVID-19 patients and SARS-CoV-2-infected mice. In COVID-19 patients and mice, the N protein interacts with G3BP1, suppresses SG formation, and potentiates viral infection by antagonizing the G3BP1-mediated host innate immune response pathway [97,98]. 


Although G3BP1 synergizes host immune responses to fght viral invasion, some viruses require G3BP1 for effcient infection. Such pro-viral activities have been reported for several viruses including CHIKV, hepatitis C virus, and respiratory syncytial virus [23,74,99]. For example, during CHIKV infection, depletion of both G3BP1 and G3BP2 signifcantly decreases viral RNA levels, protein expression, and subsequent viral progeny produc­tion [23]. Binding of the viral genome by G3BP1 and sequestering it into viral replication complexes may be important to prevent G3BP1-mediated activation of the innate immune response. The proposed pro-viral functions of G3BP1 include: stabilizing viral mRNAs to prevent degradation, facilitating viral protein translation by recruiting translation factors and ribosomes, acting as a scaffold to build viral replication complexes, and amplifying the viral genome. In this section, we will discuss the different strategies employed by viruses that use G3BP1 to promote viral replication. 
4.2.1. Togaviruses Sequester G3BP1 to Facilitate Viral Replication and Translation Togaviridae is a family of enveloped, icosahedral viruses with a positive-sense single-stranded RNA genome including the mosquito-borne alphaviruses that cause rash and arthritis such as CHIKV, SFV, and SINV. Notably, the alphavirus genus can be categorized into the Old World alphaviruses (CHIKV, SINV, SFV) and the New World alphaviruses (VEEV, EEEV) based on their geographical origin. Cells lacking both G3BP1/G3BP2 do not support replication of the Old World alphaviruses but do support replication of the New World encephalitic alphaviruses, indicating a virus-specifc importance of G3BP1 for infection. In infected cells, G3BP1 is sequestered through interaction of the NTF2L domain with FGDF motifs in the C-terminal hypervariable region of non-structural protein 3 (nsP3). For initiation of infection, G3BP1 facilitates CHIKV, but not to SFV, translation of genomic RNA by enriching translation factors at cytopathic vacuoles [100]. The binding of nsP3 with G3BP1 is a proposed mechanism for SG disassembly where nsP3-G3BP1 binding inhibits the interaction between other SG components and G3BP1. However, SFV without FGDF motifs still disassembles SGs, but at a slower rate suggesting an additional mechanism for SG disassembly [77]. Recently, our group discovered that the SG disassembly for CHIKV is partly mediated by the macrodomain at the N-terminus of nsP3. The macrodomain possesses ADP-ribosylhydrolase activity (the ability to remove ADP-ribose from conjugated proteins), and this enzymatic activity is critical for replication and virulence of viruses from several viral families [92,101–104]. G3BP1 ADP-ribosylation, a key driver of SG assembly, is reduced in cells infected by wild-type CHIKV, but not a mutant virus that lacks hydrolase activity. Infection with the mutant virus results in delayed SG disassembly and reduced viral structural protein synthesis in neuronal cells, suggesting that G3BP1 ADP-ribosylation regulates virus production [47,105]. Notably, the New World alphaviruses do not have the FGDF motif and thus do not bind G3BP1. Instead, these viruses sequester other SG components, such as FXR1, FXR2, and FMR1, which bind to ribosomes. Hence, these proteins possibly recruit ribosomes and facilitate translation of New World viral genomic RNA similar to the G3BP1 role for Old World alphaviruses [78,106]. Therefore, although SG components are targeted by 
both Old World and New World alphaviruses, G3BP1 plays a pro-viral role only for Old World alphaviruses. 
4.2.2. Caliciviruses Remodel the G3BP1 Interactome during Infection The Caliciviridae family comprises small non-enveloped positive-strand RNA viruses, including human norovirus (HuNoV) and the closely related murine norovirus (MNV). MNV 
remodels G3BP1 interactome in infected cells and induces cytoplasmic G3BP1 granules during infection that are distinct from SGs. The proteome of G3BP1 granules contains several proteins that are present in viral replication complexes, suggesting a pro-viral role of G3BP1 during MNV infection. Consistently, genetic depletion of G3BP1 severely affects viral replication and translation. In addition, knockdown of MNV-induced G3BP1 interactors reduces MNV replication, suggesting that the G3BP1 interactome consists of host factors that are required for effcient viral replication complex formation [84,107]. Similar to alphaviruses, G3BP1 in MNV-infected cells recruit ribosomes to viral RNA and initiates translation [31]. During MNV infection, both PKR and GCN2 phosphorylate eIF2a; however, SG formation is not observed in the infected cells, even though they can still form SGs upon arsenite treatment, suggesting that MNV decouples the SG formation from eIF2a phosphorylation during virus infection. In contrast, feline calicivirus cleaves G3BP1 through the viral 3C-like proteinase NS6Pro [94]. 

4.3. G3BP1 Is Differentially Utilized within the Flaviviridae Family Although G3BP1 infuences viral propagation of Flaviviridae family, different members 
utilize G3BP1 at different stages of infection. In this section, we describe how G3BP1 function is modulated by DENV, ZIKV, and HCV. 
4.3.1. Dengue Virus (DENV) Modulates G3BP1 Function by Interacting with 30UTR vRNA DENV infection induces G3BP1 punctate-like structures at the early stage of infection. Although the phosphorylation of eIF2a by PKR occurs at the late infection stage [73], it is unclear whether infected cells induce SGs. The expression of viral protein is reduced in cells containing G3BP1 granules, whereas knockdown of G3BP1 enhances protein level and viral titers. In DENV-2-infected cells, G3BP1 is also associated with ISG mRNAs and facilitates their translation to inhibit viral replication. As an IFN countermeasure during DENV-2 infection of Huh-7 cells, a long noncoding RNA from the subgenomic region of faviviral RNA (sfRNA) produced by all faviviruses binds G3BP1, G3BP2, and Caprin1, and thereby inhibits the translation of ISGs [21]. Not all favivirus sfRNAs have this property 
and whether a similar decoy phenomenon may be used by other viruses to counter the production of ISG proteins and promote viral replication is unknown. 
4.3.2. ZIKV and HCV Require G3BP1 for Proper Viral Replication In both ZIKV-and HCV-infected cells, G3BP1 associates with the viral replication complex. G3BP1 depletion reduces viral replication, titer, and viral protein levels, while overexpression of G3BP1 enhances viral titers. In addition, in ZIKV-infected cells, G3BP1 interacts with capsid protein and co-localizes with envelope protein, suggesting a possible role for G3BP1 in virion assembly [70–72]. During HCV infection, G3BP1 interacts with the 50­
UTR of viral RNA and is involved in genome amplification [74]. Interestingly, HCV requires only G3BP1, but not G3BP2 whose knockdown does not alter viral replication [74,75]. 


Though G3BP1 is a predominant target for many viruses, there are some viruses whose replication is unaffected by the expression level of G3BP1. 
4.4.1. Depletion or Overexpression of G3BP1 Does Not Affect PRRSV Infection PRRSV—a single-stranded positive-sense enveloped virus in the Arteriviridae family— does not require G3BP1, yet the protein is closely associated with viral replication complexes. Neither deletion nor overexpression of G3BP1, G3BP2, or both affects viral titers. In contrast to the above-described viruses, PRRSV induces SGs only at late stages of infection (48–72-h post-infection) through PERK-, rather than PKR-mediated eIF2a phosphorylation. The reason for G3BP1 association with viral replication complexes and the mechanism and role of SG assembly at late infection stages are not known [85,86]. Intriguingly, one study suggested a pro-viral function of SG assembly during PRRSV infection. Cells infected 
with PRRSV induces SGs, recruits G3BP1 and the viral replicase protein nsP1ß, thereby inhibiting G3BP1-mediated PKR activation [108]. 

4.4.2. G3BP1 Is Sequestered within Ebola Virus Inclusions EBOV, a single-stranded negative-sense RNA virus, does not induce SG assembly but sequesters SG components G3BP1, eEF2, eIF2, and eIF3 through the viral protein VP5 [55,87]. Although infection-mediated SG assembly is not observed, EBOV inhibits arsenite-induced SG assembly. VP5 expression affects IFNa/ß expression and PKR kinase activation in infected cells. Although G3BP1 is sequestered within the viral inclusions, the exact role of G3BP1 in EBOV infection is not well understood.  Viruses employ at least three strategies to target and modulate G3BP1 function during infection: (1) enzymatic activity such as proteolytic cleavage or removing post-translation modifcation (e.g., poliovirus and alphavirus); (2) binding or sequestration (e.g., alphavirus and coronavirus); and (3) redistribution or remodeling of G3BP1 interaction (e.g., norovirus). These functional modulations of G3BP1 by viruses impacts the viral life cycle either posi­tively or negatively. In general, if G3BP1 exerts anti-viral activity, then viruses cleave or sequester G3BP1 (e.g., polioviruses, faviviruses). If G3BP1 is required for viral replication, viruses do not cleave G3BP1, but instead recruit it to build viral replication complexes (e.g., alphaviruses). For pro-viral roles, the NTF2L and RGG domains of G3BP1 play a crucial role to bind viral proteins or viral RNA, respectively. Besides, some viruses possess conserved motifs (e.g., FGDF) within their proteins to bind and modulate G3BP1 func­tion [76,109]. Intriguingly, the post-translational modifcation status of heavily regulated G3BP1 may determine the functional consequences of interaction. G3BP1 methylation recruits TDRD3 into SGs to regulate innate immune response [60]. Alphaviruses and coronaviruses encode an enzyme to remove ADP-ribosylation indicating that the modifed form of G3BP1 may possess anti-viral functions. Given that G3BP1 is also modifed by phosphorylation and ubiquitylation, it is worth checking the status of G3BP1 for other post-translation modifcation at different infection stages and determine how these modi­fcations affect a viral life cycle [33,42]. Furthermore, the differences in the role of G3BP1 during infection—pro-viral or anti-viral—may also depend on the type and differentiation status of the cell infected. 
G3BP1 plays critical yet distinct roles during infection by different families of the virus. Recent proteomic studies provided some insights into the G3BP1 interactome during infection. In SINV-infected cells, G3BP1 stably interacts with viral proteins throughout the life cycle, whereas some SG components interact in a time-dependent manner. During norovirus infection, the G3BP1 interactome is modulated to inhibit the formation of SGs. Given that the interacting partners of G3BP1 are modulated during infection to form new complexes in a virus-specifc manner, different terms have been used to differentiate for these viral-induced protein complexes, including atypical SGs (EV), anti-viral SGs (IBV), or nsP3 foci (alphaviruses). Therefore, not all G3BP1-positive structures are SGs, and should be stained with other markers to ascertain their identities. Unlike RNA viruses, the role of G3BP1 during infection with DNA viruses is poorly understood. For example, in vaccinia virus-infected cells, G3BP1 and other SG components are recruited to cytoplasmic viral factories where transcription and translation occur. However, the precise function of G3BP1 in these viral factories is yet to be characterized. Extensive research is warranted to delineate whether G3BP1 plays a pro-viral or anti-viral role in DNA viruses [110,111]. 
Finally, it is noteworthy to mention that some studies have been performed in a system by overexpressing or knocking down G3BP1, which may result in ambiguous conclusions. For example, G3BP1 knockdown increases G3BP2 expression, while G3BP1 overexpression induces PKR-mediated eIF2a phosphorylation and SG formation–these non-physiological changes could affect the normal stages of the viral life cycle. To overcome these concerns, many groups recently have begun to apply CRISPR technologies to genetically knock in a fuorescent tag or knock out G3BP1 to delineate the functions of G3BP1 under physiological conditions. Special consideration should also be given to the cell type and viral load, as these factors may infuence the outcome of virus infection. Given that these factors also modulate the cellular status and proteome in a spatio-temporal manner, it is critical to analyze at single-cell levels using live-cell imaging, and assays, such as ribopuromycylation, to quantitate the cellular changes only in the infected cells. Given that G3BP1 is a well-described target for many viruses, clarifying the precise functional roles of G3BP1 during infection will not only advance the feld of host-virus interaction but may also offer novel therapeutic opportunities. 
Viral and cellular mRNA-specific activators harnessPABP and eIF4G to promote translation initiationdownstream of cap binding 
Richard W. P. Smitha,b,c,1, Ross C. Andersona,b,2, Osmany Larraldec,3, Joel W. S. Smithb, Barbara Gorgonia,b,4, William A. Richardsona,b, Poonam Malikc,d,5, Sheila V. Grahamc, and Nicola K. Graya,b,1 
aMedical Research Council Centre for Reproductive Health, Queen’s Medical Research Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom; bMedical Research Council Human Genetics Unit, University of Edinburgh, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, United Kingdom; cMedical Research Council-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, Garscube Campus, Glasgow G61 1QH, United Kingdom; and dWellcome Trust Centre for Cell Biology and Institute of Cell Biology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3BF, United Kingdom 
Edited by Nahum Sonenberg, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada, and approved April 28, 2017 (received for review July 4, 2016) 
Regulation of mRNA translation is a major control point for gene expression and is critical for life. Of central importance is the complex between cap-bound eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), eIF4G, and poly(A) tail-binding protein (PABP) that circu­larizes mRNAs, promoting translation and stability. This complex is often targeted to regulate overall translation rates, and also by mRNA-specific translational repressors. However, the mechanisms of mRNA-specific translational activation by RNA-binding proteins remain poorly understood. Here, we address this deficit, focusing on a herpes simplex virus-1 protein, ICP27. We reveal a direct in­teraction with PABP that is sufficient to promote PABP recruitment and necessary for ICP27-mediated activation. PABP binds several translation factors but is primarily considered to activate transla­tion initiation as part of the PABP–eIF4G–eIF4E complex that stim­ulates the initial cap-binding step. Importantly, we find that ICP27­PABP forms a complex with, and requires the activity of, eIF4G. Surprisingly, ICP27–PABP–eIF4G complexes act independently of the effects of PABP-eIF4G on cap binding to promote small ribo­somal subunit recruitment. Moreover, we find that a cellular mRNA-specific regulator, Deleted in Azoospermia-like (Dazl), also employs the PABP–eIF4G interaction in a similar manner. We pro­pose a mechanism whereby diverse RNA-binding proteins directly recruit PABP, in a non–poly(A) tail-dependent manner, to stimulate the small subunit recruitment step. This strategy may be particu­larly relevant to biological conditions associated with hypoadeny­lated mRNAs (e.g., germ cells/neurons) and/or limiting cytoplasmic PABP (e.g., viral infection, cell stress). This mechanism adds signif­icant insight into our knowledge of mRNA-specific translational activation and the function of the PABP–eIF4G complex in translation initiation. 
DAZL | ICP27 | mRNA-specific translational regulation | mRNA-binding protein | poly(A)-binding protein 

D
espite the importance of translational control, the mechanisms by which specific subsets of mRNAs are translationally regu­lated are only well defined in a handful of cases. Nevertheless, it is clear that regulation is most often mediated by factors recruited to the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of mRNAs and frequently occurs at the level of initiation (1). Initiation is a multistep process in­volving several mRNA-dependent steps, each of which requires eukaryotic initiation factors (eIFs) (2). Initially, the m7GpppX cap is bound by eIF4F, comprising a large scaffold protein, eIF4G, bound to the cap-binding protein, eIF4E, and an RNA helicase, eIF4A. The small (40S) ribosomal subunit, initiator tRNA, and associated initiation factors are then recruited as a 43S preinitiation complex. Recruitment is facilitated by eIF4A-dependent removal of RNA secondary structure and by the interaction of 40S-associated eIF3 with eIF4G. The 43S small ribosomal subunit complex then scans the 5' UTR to locate a start codon, recognition of which pro­motes release of initiation factors and joining of the large (60S) ribosomal subunit to form an 80S ribosome. Like the cap, the poly 
(A) tail serves as a primary determinant of translational efficiency (3) via the action of poly(A)-binding protein (PABP). Analysis of mRNA-ribosomal subunit association has shown that PABP pro­motes small subunit recruitment, an activity attributed to its ability to stimulate cap binding by eIF4E (4). Stabilization of the cap–eIF4E interaction requires the RNA-binding activity of their common partner, eIF4G (5), which acts as a bridging factor mediating the “closed-loop” mRNA conformation (1). This conformation brings the ends of the mRNA into proximity, providing insight into how 3' UTR-bound factors can control initiation. 
Despite the rate-limiting, cap-binding step being a common regulatory target for global and mRNA-specific regulation, studies of diverse mRNA-specific translational repressors have revealed that multiple initiation steps can be regulated (1). In contrast, mechanisms are described for only a very few 

raising the possibility that it may function by interacting with one or 


more initiation factors. This possibility prompted us to screen for 
such interactions by directed yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) analysis, re­
vealing 
a 
single 
strong 
interaction 
with 
PABP translation in the absence of other viral proteins when tethered to the 3' UTR of reporter mRNAs (14), its interaction with the translational machinery must either be direct or mediated in­directly by other cellular proteins, further supporting the idea that it may share a mechanism of action with cellular regulators of translation. Here, we investigate its mechanism of action, establishing that it requires recruitment of PABP, via a direct protein interaction, to ICP27-bound mRNAs. ICP27 activity was also shown to depend on the integrity of eIF4G, but was sur­prisingly found to stimulate small subunit recruitment down­stream of the initial cap-binding event. Furthermore, we provide evidence that this previously undescribed mechanism of mRNA­specific translational activation also applies to at least one cel­lular mRNA-binding protein, Deleted in Azoospermia-like (Dazl). These results increase our knowledge of the mecha­nisms of mRNA-specific translational activation and provide evidence that the PABP–eIF4G interaction in metazoans has pleiotropic effects on small ribosomal subunit recruitment. 

ICP27 Stimulates Initiation of Translation Independently of the Cap-Binding Event. In metazoan cells, PABP drives small ribo­somal subunit recruitment, a function attributed to enhancement of cap binding by eIF4E, as part of the PABP–eIF4G–eIF4E complex (2, 4). Therefore, our results raise the possibility that ICP27, like other mechanistically defined mRNA-specific activators, may exert its effect at the initial cap-binding step (22, 23). To address this possibility, the ability of MS2-ICP27 to stimulate a reporter mRNA bearing a nonfunctional ApppG-cap structure (Fig. 
S2A, [2]) was tested. ApppG-capped mRNAs are stable (Fig. 
S2D), although translated at low efficiency 
(Fig. 
S5A), because they are not rec­ognized by eIF4E. Surprisingly, ICP27 activates the translation of this reporter mRNA to a similar extent as the m7GpppG-capped reporter (Fig. 
S5B). Thus, the 5' cap-recognition event appears dispensable for translational activation by tethered ICP27, sug­gesting that it activates via an undescribed mechanism. Because the inherent instability of purified ICP27 confounds cell-free system analysis of initiation intermediates (e.g., by sucrose gradients), we used reporters with different viral internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs) to further delineate its mechanism of action in intact cells. Critically, these IRESs have distinct, well defined, noncanonical mechanisms to recruit small ribosomal subunits and are functional in X. laevis oocytes(24)(Fig. 
S5A). Hepatitis A virus (HAV) RNA, like many other IRES-driven viral RNAs, lacks a physiological cap and does not require the cap–eIF4E interaction for its translation, although it may use eIF4E noncanonically (25, 26). Importantly, HAV IRES-mediated initiation is stimulated by ICP27 (Fig. 3A and Fig. 
S2D), verifying that cap recognition is not required for MS2­ICP27 action. The eIF4E independence of ICP27 was probed fur­ther using a poliovirus (PV) IRES-dependent reporter mRNA because eIF4E is dispensable for PV translation (27). PV-IRES translation is stimulated to levels comparable to the m7GpppG­capped reporter (Fig. 3B and Fig. 
S2D), establishing that neither the cap nor the cap-binding protein is required for ICP27-mediated activation. These findingssuggest that theICP27–PABP complex acts downstream of cap binding to stimulate ribosomal subunit re­cruitment. To test this possibility, a reporter mRNA containing the classical swine fever virus (CSFV) IRES was used. Small subunit recruitment by the CSFV IRES differs significantly from both ca­nonical initiation (28) and small subunit recruitment at HAV and PV IRESs (25) in that it is independent of all eIF4 factors and eIF3 (28, 29). Crucially, the ability of ICP27 to stimulate translation was completely abrogated on CSFV IRES-driven reporter mRNAs (Fig. 3C and Fig. 
S2D). This result contrasts with the ability of some translational repressors that target 60S joining to regulate translation of such mRNAs (30). Thus, taken together, these results establish that the ICP27–PABP complex acts during initiation but downstream of cap binding to enhance small subunit recruitment through one or more of the initiation factors required by PV but not CFSV (i.e., eIF4G, eIF4A, eIF4B, eIF3). Because this finding was unexpected, we directly tethered PABP, recapitulating the reporter mRNA translational stimulation 
by 
ICP27 .
Codon degeneracy of amino acid sequences permits an additional ‘‘mRNP code” layer underlying the genetic code that is related to RNA processing. In pre-mRNA splicing, splice site usage is determined by both intrinsic strength and sequence context providing RNA binding sites for splicing regulatory pro­teins. In this study, we systematically examined modifcation of splicing regulatory properties in the neighborhood of a GT site, i.e. potential splice site, without altering the encoded amino acids. 
We quantifed the splicing regulatory properties of the neighborhood around a potential splice site by its Splice Site HEXplorer Weight (SSHW) based on the HEXplorer score algorithm. To systematically modify GT site neighborhoods, either minimizing or maximizing their SSHW, we designed the novel stochastic optimization algorithm ModCon that applies a genetic algorithm with stochastic crossover, insertion and random mutation elements supplemented by a heuristic sliding window approach. 
To assess the achievable range in SSHW in human splice donors without altering the encoded amino acids, we applied ModCon to a set of 1000 randomly selected Ensembl annotated human splice donor sites, achieving substantial and accurate changes in SSHW. Using ModCon optimization, we successfully switched splice donor usage in a splice site competition reporter containing coding sequences from FANCA, FANCB or BRCA2, while retaining their amino acid coding information. 
The ModCon algorithm and its R package implementation can assist in reporter design by either intro­ducing novel splice sites, silencing accidental, undesired splice sites, and by generally modifying the entire mRNP code while maintaining the genetic code. 
During splicing, introns of a newly synthetized pre-mRNA strand are mostly co-transcriptionally removed from the tran­script, followed by the ligation of the remaining exonic sequence segments [1,2]. The intron excision cellular machinery is called 
Beyond the proper splice site consensus sequences, splice site recognition has been shown to greatly depend on proximal binding of splicing regulatory proteins (SRPs) [8-11], which can signif­cantly enhance or repress splice site usage. Splicing regulatory pro­teins can be divided into two major families, differing in their position-dependent effect on splice site usage [12]. Serine-and arginine-rich proteins (SR proteins) enhance usage of upstream splice acceptors and downstream splice donors, but repress usage of upstream splice donors and downstream splice acceptors. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNP) on the other hand have an opposite effect on splice site usage. The proximal splice donor context benefcial for its usage therefore consists of upstream binding motifs of SR proteins and downstream binding motifs of hnRNP proteins (reviewed in [11]). 
In general, different nucleotide sequences coding for the same amino acid sequence can contain different splicing regulatory ele­ments—binding sites for SR-or hnRNP proteins. For any genomic sequence, its splicing regulatory properties are refected by its HEXplorer score (HZEI) profle, calculated for every nucleotide [13]. Here, we examine the possible variation in the total HEX­plorer score while preserving the encoded amino acid sequence for a given reading frame. To this end, we designed an algorithm to maximize or minimize total HZEI by variation of admissible codons. With an average codon degeneracy of three (range 1–6), the number of alternatively admissible nucleotide sequences for a given sequence of N amino acids is ~3N and grows exponentially with the number of codons, N. An exhaustive search in the space of all alternative sequences is therefore very time-consuming and not feasible in practice. 
Stochastic optimization algorithms like Monte Carlo or evolu­tionary algorithms are particularly well suited for optimizing an objective function—total HZEI—in an exponentially large confgura­tion space (~3N) under a set of constraints (amino acids). Here, we designed a genetic algorithm with recombination between mating confguration populations using crossover, insertion and random mutations, and combined it with a heuristic sliding window approach. This ModCon algorithm (Modulator of Context) permits enhancing or silencing splice site usage by manipulating their sequence neighborhoods while preserving the encoded amino acids. As a proof of principle, we applied ModCon to sequences within a splice donor competition reporter and additionally demonstrated the impact of a change in HEXplorer score for a nat­urally occurring GT site within a common luciferase expression reporter system. We tested the scope of HEXplorer score manipu­lation with ModCon on a set of 1000 randomly selected human SD sites. 
 
The HEXplorer score is based on hexamer frequency differences in 100 nt long neighborhoods upstream compared to downstream of splice donor sites [13], resulting in a ZEI-score for each hexamer. Hexamers predominantly found upstream of splice donor sites have positive ZEI-scores, and they frequently overlap SR protein binding sites, while negative ZEI-score hexamers often relate to hnRNP binding sites. Proceeding from a single hexamer-based quantifcation to a score for each nucleotide of a genomic sequence, we calculated the HEXplorer score (HZEI) as the average ZEI-score of all six hexamers overlapping an index nucleotide: 
P
HZEI ¼ ZEI=6. The total HZEI of a sequence stretch, e.g. a splice site neighborhood, indicates its overall splicing regulatory prop­erty, likely due to hnRNP or SR protein binding sites. Changes in HEXplorer score induced by mutations have been shown to corre­late well with the mutation’s impact on nearby splice site usage [14]. 
For any splice donor site, the overall SRP-mediated impact of its sequence neighborhood on splice site usage is then captured by its Splice Site HEXplorer Weight (SSHW), the total upstream minus 
PP
downstream HZEI [14]: SSHW ¼ upHZEI dnHZEI . The higher the SSHW, the higher the predicted SRP binding potential of a splice site sequence neighborhood, potentially enhancing its usage. 
2.2. The ModCon algorithm 
To optimize a splice donor site’s SSHW, ModCon combines a genetic algorithm applying principles of natural selection and sex­ual recombination with a sliding window approach, and separately addresses up-and downstream sequences of the given splice site. Driven by the optimization algorithm, ModCon varies the sequence neighborhood of the splice donor site under the constraint of pre­serving the encoded amino acids and calculates the HEXplorer score of each alternative neighborhood as well as the SSHW. 
As input, ModCon takes (1) a coding sequence, (2) the position of the frst nucleotide of the ‘‘index” GT site within the coding sequence and (3) either maximization or minimization of the tar­get function SSHW. ModCon outputs a coding sequence with a SSHW-optimized alternative neighborhood (16 codons upstream and downstream by default) for the GT site. The graphical abstract provides a structural overview of the ModCon algorithm. 
2.2.1. Maximizing or minimizing the total HEXplorer score of a coding sequence 
To maximize the SSHW of a splice donor site, ModCon maxi­mizes the total upstream HEXplorer score and minimizes the total downstream HEXplorer score, and vice versa. 
By default, ModCon considers a sequence window of ±48 nucleotides around the selected index GT site in frame, excluding codons which would overlap with the 11 nucleotides of the GT donor sequence. Synonymous substitutions are then applied to 16 codons (e 48 nt) upstream and downstream of the GT site to increase or decrease the underlying total HZEI, possibly regulating GT site usage through introduction or modifcation of splicing reg­ulatory elements. 
Ideally, the total HEXplorer score HZEI of all sequences encoding the same amino acid sequence would be calculated to determine the highest or lowest total HZEI. However, a sequence of 16 amino acids can potentially be encoded by up to 616 or 2.8 trillion differ­ent nucleotide sequences, because some amino acids can be encoded by up to 6 different codons. Since the HEXplorer score computation of all 2.8 trillion eligible sequences, however, would require extensive time and memory resources, we developed an evolutionary algorithm supplemented by a sliding window approach. 


Genetic algorithms can be used to approach optimization tasks with trillions of potential solutions for combinatorial problems by applying principles of genetic recombination and natural selection [15]. 
Here, a genetic algorithm is developed to combine distinct sets of nucleotide sequences depending on their ‘‘ftness”, defned by their total HZEI. It applies a cyclic iterative optimization process that consists of (1) generating an initial sequence population and calculating its ftness, (2) selecting a suitable mating population, 
(3) creating a new flial generation from it and (4) introducing ran­dom mutations (see fowchart Fig. 1). 
First, by randomly selecting eligible codons, an initial parental population F0 of 1000 sequences is generated, all encoding the 

Here is how the genetic algorithm is generated: After generation of the initial sequence population, the ‘‘ftness” of the sequences, defned by the total HZEI, is calculated. Next, a defned number of sequences are selected for recombination, either randomly, by crossover, or sequence insertion. Afterwards, every codon within a sequence undergoes random codon exchange with a certain probability. The ftness of every newly generated flial generation of sequences is again determined by total HZEI calculation. This cycle of generations is continued, while determining the best ftness of every generation, until no further signifcant increase in total HZEI can be measured anymore. Finally, the sequence with the highest or lowest total HZEI is returned. A dashed arrow represents a one-time action, whereas a solid arrow represents an action repeated in every generation. 
same initial amino acid sequence. In order to improve convergence speed, this sequence set can optionally be supplemented with typ­ically 100 (10%) sequences previously calculated by a sliding-window approach. This step signifcantly accelerates the process of the genetic algorithm by directing it towards an optimal solution. 
In the frst part of the genetic algorithm loop, the ftness of every sequence of the parental population F0 is calculated as its respective total HZEI. For each generation, the sequence with the highest or lowest total HZEI is stored for later reporting on eff­ciency, and to check if the overall scores could be signifcantly improved during the last 30 generations. 
A new set of sequences, the mating population M, is then gener­ated through recombination from a subset of the parental popula­tion F0. This subset is per default assembled from 40% of the fttest sequences of F0, 20% of F0 using the ftness as probability for selec­tion, and 5% randomly selected parental sequences. 
Next, M is used to generate a set of recombined sequences (300 per default). The resulting flial population F1 is created through random combination of sequence blocks from sequences of the mating population. Every newly generated codon sequence is gen­erated by recombination of two randomly selected codon sequences from the mating population, using three distinct modes of recombination (Fig. 2). 
Usage frequency of the three methods of recombination is based on the extent to which the three modes preserve continuous parental codon sequence stretches within the resulting flial sequences. Therefore, 60% of flial sequences originate from ‘‘cross­over” recombination, where a flial sequence is made from two continuous sequence stretches coming from one parental sequence each. With 30%, the second most applied mode of recombination is ‘‘insertion”, where flial sequences consist of the sequence of one parental sequence, which holds a random-sized insertion from a second parental sequence in-between. The least used recombina­tion method is the random selection of codons from either one par­ental sequence. It is used for the remaining 10% of flial sequences. 
An important step of evolutionary algorithms is the introduc­tion of mutations after generation of the flial population F1, since a carefully selected mutation rate increases the probability to escape potential local maxima or minima during the search for the global peak in the ftness function. From a series of preliminary experiments, we identifed an optimal mutation rate of 10-4 or 0.01%, meaning that one in 10,000 codons is randomly exchanged with another codon encoding the same amino acid. 
The introduction of mutations marks the last step during the cycle of generations. Afterwards, the total HZEI is again calculated for each sequence, to determine the likeliness to further contribute to the following generations of flial sequences. Then, again, a sub­set of sequences is selected from F1 based on their ftness to con­stitute the next mating sequence population, to generate the second flial population F2 through recombination. 
The generation of newly combined sequences is repeated, until the total HZEI holds approximately the same level for at least 30 generations or the maximal number of generations (50 generations by default) is reached. 


Here is how the Sliding-window algorithm is created: Sliding-window algorithm 
In order to keep the computational effort manageable, we fur­thermore applied a stepwise optimization of codon-quadruplets to optimize the total HZEI of a 16-codon long sequence. In contrast to the up to 2.8 trillion different nucleotide sequences for a stretch of 16 codons, a four amino acids long sequence can only be encoded by up to 64 = 1296 distinct nucleotide sequences, which enables more effcient total HZEI calculation. 
To optimize the total HZEI of a sequence, the sliding window algorithm frst makes a list of every potential nucleotide sequence encoding the most upstream stretch of four amino acids (codons 1–4). Then, total HZEI is calculated and the most downstream hex­amer of each nucleotide sequence is saved. For every unique hex­amer within the sequence pool, the maximal associated total HZEI is determined. Since the HEXplorer score of each nucleotide is calculated from all six overlapping hexamers, a hexamer between two nucleotides constitutes a barrier in the HZEI score dependencies. In particular, a sequence downstream of a hexamer can be changed without affecting the HZEI upstream of that hex­amer. The algorithm then proceeds with the optimal nucleotide sequences in each hexamer group, reducing the number of sequences drastically (up to 62 = 36 sequences, in case the last hex­amer encodes amino acids with a codon degeneracy of 6). 
Subsequently, the algorithm makes a list of every potential nucleotide sequence encoding the next four codons (codons 5–8) and combines every new nucleotide sequence with every previ­ously determined one. Since always those sequences with the highest total HZEI are selected, the frst four codons are now the same in every sequence. To decrease computation time, we can save them for the output and remove them from our sequence list, reducing the sequence length to four codons. This process is repeated until the end of the 16 codons is reached. 
While the sliding window algorithm enables fast calculation (taking only a few seconds per run on a standard machine), its fast convergence skips sequences with an intermediate HZEI increase. The sliding window algorithm is therefore primarily used to quickly obtain a few near-optimal sequences, in particular as sup­plementary sequences for the genetic algorithm. 


Here is how additional sequence processing is completed:
A sequence found to maximize or minimize total HZEI may still contain GT or AG dinucleotides that may accidentally correspond to strong splice donor or acceptor sites. To reduce coincidental 
mixture of codons from both parental sequences, introduction of such undesired splice sites, ModCon proceeds to degrade splice sites exceeding a threshold of HBS >10 for splice donors and Maxent score >4 for splice acceptors, while preserving the encoded amino acids. 
For that purpose, codons overlapping these GT or AG sites are exchanged by alternative codons leading to no or much weaker sites, while keeping total HZEI close to the identifed optimum. Degrading or increasing the HBond score of a specifc index GT site of interest can be performed if needed, using the respective R-functions. 
 

Similar SSHW ranges obtained by GA and SW for 1000 human TSL1 SD sites 
In order to determine the achievable range of SSHW optimiza­tion, we extracted 185,190 unique splice donors annotated in Ensembl transcripts (version 101) with the highest transcript support level of 1 (TSL1). After removing 1% of extre­mely high and low SSHW values, the remaining 183,339 wild type donor sites (99%) showed SSHW values ranging from around 300 to 1000 (average SSHW 235). 
For a random sample of 1000 splice donors drawn from this set (Suppl. Table 2), we then minimized and maximized SSHW using both the sliding window algorithm (SW) and the genetic algorithm with the results from the SW added to the initial population (GA). Table 1 presents the average and standard deviation SSHW differ­ence for the four combinations of algorithm (GA, SW) and opti­mization (SSHW min/max). 
Fig. 3 shows the distributions of minimal and maximal SSHW difference (optimized—wild type) obtained by the GA and SW algo­rithm. Note that the resulting distributions for the GA and SW algo­rithm practically coincide, while the maximal SSHW distribution is ~17% narrower and higher compared to the minimal SSHW distribution. 
Comparing the distribution of SSHW values achieved with the two algorithms showed no signifcant differences during SSHW minimization or maximization. However, for around a third of the 1000 SD sites, one of the two approaches performed marginally better. During SSHW minimization and maximization, the GA with the input from the SW algorithm exceeded the achieved SSHW of the SW algorithm alone in 26% of the cases and underperformed for 8% of the SD sites. However, although both algorithms obtained similar extreme values for SSHW, the GA also provides a wide range of intermediate SSHW, and thus permits fne adjustment of potential binding sites for SRPs. 

3.2. Faster convergence of GA if SW results are added to initial population 
While the sliding window algorithm is deterministic in nature, the genetic algorithm is stochastic and progressively converges to a sequence with optimized SSHW. Convergence speed depends on the choice of mating populations and flial generations, but also on the initial sequence population chosen. Here, we in particular examined the impact of adding 10% sliding-window optimized sequences to the initial generation of the genetic algorithm during total HZEI maximization. We generated scatterplots of the total HZEI values of all 300 sequences in each generation both with (Fig. 4B) and without these additional sequences (Fig. 4A). Upon adding 100 SW-optimized sequences generated from the initial WT sequence, the convergence of the genetic algorithm was faster and reached sequences with optimal total HZEI values with fewer iterations, signifcantly reducing the algorithm’s runtime. These observations also held true for total HZEI minimizations (data not shown). 
In contrast to the sliding window algorithm, the genetic algo­rithm has the beneft of approaching the total HZEI maximum or minimum with many slightly different intermediate sequences, and thus avoids getting trapped in local maxima or minima during optimization. This effect could be nicely observed with the exam­ple of Fig. 4, where the maximal total HZEI of the sliding window algorithm was even exceeded after the third generation of the genetic algorithm. 
Naturally, the GA with input from the SW algorithm required more CPU time per SSHW minimization or maximization than the SW algorithm alone. During SSHW adjustment of the 1000 human donor sites from Suppl. Table 2 on a machine with 4 CPUs and 8 GB RAM, the SW algorithm took an average of 16.0 s per SD, whereas the GA with input from the SW algorithm took an average of 54.3 s per SD, making the former 3.4 times faster. Similar run­ning time was measured during SSHW minimizations. ModCon, however, also runs with only 1 CPU and a few Mb of RAM available. ModCon per default applies the SW algorithm for SSHW optimiza­tions to save running time, while still achieving a similarly high or low SSHW than with the GA. Alternatively, the combined algo­rithm can still be applied setting the parameter ‘‘optiRate” of the R function ‘‘ModCon” to any value other than 100. Setting optiRate to a value >100 results in ModCon using the combined approach to optimize the SSHW of a given GT site. A value lower than 100 trig­gers the same, but also reports an alternative sequence neighbor­hood for the donor, which shows optiRate % of the maximal SSHW increase or decrease, enabling fne adjustment of SSHW values. 

To experimentally test the splicing regulatory effect of ModCon designed nucleotide sequences, we selected three 40 nucleotides long wildtype sequences from FANCA, FANCB and BRCA2 with neg­ative HZEI scores, and positioned them between two identical strong splice donors (HBS 17.5) in an HIV-based two-exon splice site competition reporter. Different sequences placed between these two donor sites can lead to recruitment of splicing regulatory proteins, whose impact on donor usage is position-dependent (Fig. 5A). Whereas hnRNP protein binding enhances upstream donor usage and represses downstream donor usage, SR proteins act in the opposite way. 
We specifcally selected wildtype sequences with negative HZEI regions at different levels in order to observe the gradual switch of splice site usage between the competing splice donors. With a HZEI/nt of 3.28, the wild type FANCB sequence segment induced usage of both donor sites, while a slightly reduced HZEI/nt of 
5.59 in the wild type FANCA sequence segment led to exclusive upstream donor usage, further confrmed by the wild type BRCA2 sequence with HZEI/nt of 5.90. 
Maximizing the total HZEI of the sequence segments while retaining the amino acid coding information (Fig. 5C) yielded pos­itive HZEI regions and completely switched splice site usage to the downstream splice donor in all three sequences (Fig. 5B). 
In a last step, we examined ModCon on a longer coding sequence with a highly variable HEXplorer profle. Firefy luciferase as a widely used standard expression vector provides a simple experimental read-out. Aiming at turning the frefy luciferase into a splicing reporter, we attempted to switch on usage of a moder­ately strong GT site (HBS 14 median HBS = 15 in all human anno­tated 50ss, MaxEnt score of 7.33) deep in the coding region that is unused in the wild type luciferase (Fig. 6A). 
Using ModCon, we were able to induce usage of the internal, unused GT site by modifying its SSHW from 63.7 to 782.3 and additionally shifting the HEXplorer profle of the sequence seg-
Codon degeneracy of amino acid sequences permits an addi­tional ‘‘mRNP code” layer underlying the genetic code that is related to RNA processing like pre-mRNA splicing, RNA stability, RNA secondary and tertiary structure, nuclear retention or export [17]. In this study, we addressed pre-mRNA splicing regulation to promote or repress GT site usage without altering encoded amino acids and GT site sequences. Depending on the fne balance between its intrinsic strength and sequence context, GT site usage can be enhanced or repressed by proximal binding of splicing reg­ulatory proteins. Computationally, the neighboring SRP binding landscape is refected by the SSHW of a given GT site based on its neighborhood’s HEXplorer score profle [14]. To systematically modify GT site neighborhoods with respect to their predicted splic­ing regulatory properties without altering the encoded amino acids, we developed the stochastic optimization algorithm Mod-Con. We experimentally verifed the ModCon algorithm in a splice site competition reporter using wild type sequences from FANCA, FANCB and BRCA2 genes, as well as in a common reporter system of frefy luciferase. 
In particular, moderately strong splice sites are most suscepti­ble to regulation by SRP binding. Splicing regulatory proteins bind­ing within a ~50 nt neighborhood of splice donor sites are generally assumed to potentially impact splice site recognition [18,19].In the evaluation of the ModCon GA and SW algorithm, we therefore used 48 nt wide neighborhoods close to this estimate. The SW algorithm performed equally well as the combined GA during SSHW manipulation, with a 3-times shorter running time. How­ever, the GA allows a much fner SSHW tuning at intermediate levels and avoids local maxima or minima much better than the SW algorithm. Therefore, for SSHW maximization and minimiza­tion, ModCon per default applies the SW algorithm and for precise SSHW adjustments, ModCon applies the GA. 
Stochastic Monte Carlo or evolutionary algorithms are particu­larly suited to optimization tasks in large confguration spaces growing exponentially with sequence length, like ~3N for N amino acids in our case. Here, we chose a genetic algorithm with stochas­tic crossover, insertion and random mutation elements [15].We successfully reduced computational effort (time and memory demands) by supplementing this genetic algorithm by a heuristic sliding window approach. On a set of 1000 human splice donor sites, both approaches were equally able to signifcantly optimize SSHW in both directions. In a splice site competition reporter with two identical competing splice donors, we demonstrated that it is possible to induce a switch in SD usage by designing nucleotide. 
Mammalian cells respond to various environmental stressors to form stress granules (SGs) by arresting cyto­plasmic mRNA, protein translation element, and RNA binding proteins. Virus-induced SGs function in different ways, depending on the species of virus; however, the mechanism of SG regulation of virus replication is not well understood. In this study, Newcastle disease virus (NDV) triggered stable formation of bona fide SGs on HeLa cells through activating the protein kinase R (PKR)/eIF2a pathway. NDV-induced SGs contained classic SG markers T-cell internal antigen (TIA)-1, Ras GTPase-activating protein-binding protein (G3BP)-1, eukaryotic initiation factors, and small ribosomal subunit, which could be disassembled in the presence of cycloheximide. Treatment with nocodazole, a microtubule disruption drug, led to the formation of relatively small and circular granules, indicating that NDV infection induces canonical SGs. Furthermore, the role of SGs on NDV replication was investigated by knockdown of TIA-1 and TIA-1-related (TIAR) protein, the 2 critical components involved in SG formation from the HeLa cells, followed by NDV infection. Results showed that depletion of TIA-1 or TIAR inhibited viral protein synthesis, reduced extracellular virus yields, but increased global protein translation. FISH revealed that NDV-induced SGs contained predominantly cellular mRNA rather than viral mRNA. Deletion of TIA-1 or TIAR reduced NP mRNA levels in polysomes. These results demonstrate that NDV triggers stable formation of bona fide SGs, which benefit viral protein translation and virus replication by arresting cellular mRNA.
Mammalian cells enter a relatively stable state by tempo­rarily inhibiting cellular protein translation when exposed to various environmental stressors, such as virus infection,  
oxidative stress, heat shock, and UV irradiation. In this case, stress granules (SGs) are induced to arrest cytoplas­mic mRNA, protein translation factors, and RNA binding proteins (1, 2). Conventional cap-dependent translation of most cellular mRNA commences with the recognition of 7­methyl-GTP cap by the eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4F complex of translation initiation factors (3). eIF4F consists of 3 initiation factors: eIF4E, eIF4G, and eIF4A. The central region of eIF4G binds to the 40S ribosome subunit, and the N terminus recruits mRNA through binding to poly(A)­binding protein (PABP) (4). The eIF2-GTP-tRNAMet ter­nary complex associates with the 40S complex and scans for an initiation codon (2). When cells are exposed to stressors, phosphorylation of eIF2a leads to a decreased abundance of eIF2-GTP-tRNAMet (2). The RNA-binding proteins T-cell internal antigen-1 (TIA-1) and TIA-1­related (TIAR) protein are then shuttled from the nucleus to the cytoplasm to sequester untranslated mRNAs at SGs (1). The phosphorylation of eIF2a at Ser-51 is mediated by several kinases, including the heme-regulated inhibitor kinase, general control nonderepressible kinase, pro­tein kinase R (PKR), and the PKR-like endoplasmic re­ticulum kinase (5). The other noncanonical mechanism of SG induction is independent of eIF2a and involves inhibiting the activity of eIF4A, eIF4G, and eIF4E, 3 subunits of the eIF4F complex. This process ultimately leads to reduced translation initiation rates and to SG formation (6, 7). 
As obligate intracellular parasites, viruses rely on the host cell translation machinery. They adopt a se­ries of methods to rob host translation systems. For instance, the influenza virus nonstructural protein NS1 interacts with eIF4GI and PABP-1, as well as with viral mRNAs, promoting the specific recruitment of 43S complexes to the viral mRNAs (8). Many other RNA viruses contain an internal ribosome entry site (IRES) located in the 59-untranslated region of the genomic (g)RNA, which drives cap-independent ini­tiation of translation of the viral message (9). Some of theseRNA virusesinducephosphorylation of eIF2a and shut-off of global protein synthesis. In this case, virussuchashepatitis C(HCV) keepsontranslating through IRES structure in the presence of activated PKR and phosphorylation of eIF2a (10). Phosphory­lation of eIF2a also leads to SG formation. Some viruses escape translation inhibition through affect­ing SG formation (11). 
Recent years have seen a growing list of viruses with replication that is associated with SG formation (12). The pattern of virus-induced (v)-SGs varies in the virus species. Some viruses inhibit SG formation. For example, wild-type influenza A virus does not induce SGs but an NS1­mutant virus triggers SG formation in a PKR-dependent manner (13, 14). Some viruses induce transient SG for­mation. For example, during the early stages of picor­navirus infection, v-SGs can be observed but then disappear, probably because of the viral 3C protease, which is responsible for the cleavage of the Ras-GAP SH3 domain-binding protein (G3BP) (15–17). Other viru­ses induce stable SG formation. For example, SGs are ob­served at 48 h postinfection (hpi) with HCV and increase to apeak at 72hpi (18). 
SGs generally play an antiviral role (19–21). In cases where viral infection does not induce SGs, accumulat­ing evidence demonstrates an inverse correlation be­tween SG formation and viral propagation. As an example, Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) inhibits SG formation through interaction between the viral core protein and caprin-1. A mutant JEV carrying a core protein incapable of binding to caprin-1 abrogates the SG inhibitory ability and exhibits lower propagation in vitro and in vivo (19). In other cases, viruses induce SG-like structures (e.g., antiviral granules, AVGs) that re­strict virus replication. AVG formation during poxvirus infectionleads to adecreaseinbothviral translationand virus titers (20, 21). These findings support the hy­pothesis that SGs (or SG-like structures) are cellular antiviral responses. However, in situations where the virus induces bona fide SG formation, SG components seem to be required for virus infection. For instance, knockdown of SG proteins TIA-1, TIAR, or Ras GTPase­activating protein-binding protein 1 (G3BP1) impairs HCV RNA replication, virus assembly, and egress (18). Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) also triggers canoni­cal SGs. Depletion of endogenous G3BP inhibits SG formation and significantly decreases the viral titers and RNA amounts (22). 
NDV is a member of the Paramyxoviridae family with a negative-sense, nonsegmented, single-stranded RNA genome (23). Oncolytic NDV can selectively replicate in tumor cells and is an important antineo­plastic agent (24). The NDV genome contains 6 genes that encode 2 glycoproteins, the fusion protein and hemagglutinin-neuraminidase protein, the matrix protein, and the ribonucleoprotein complex, com­posed of the nucleocapsid protein (NP), phosphopro­tein (PP), and large polymerase, responsible for viral transcription and replication (23). The NP encapsu­lates the RNA genome, which serves as the template for viral transcription and replication (25). The PP is essential for viral RNA synthesis from bona fide tem­plates (26). After invasion of host cells by NDV, the NP-wrapped viral genomic RNA, as well as other viral components, is released into the cytoplasm (27). The NP encapsulates (2) viral gRNA as a template to produce (+) cRNA and mRNA. Viral mRNAs are capped and polyadenylated by L-protein during pro­tein synthesis (28, 29). The translation process relies on cellular translational machinery that is present within the host cell cytoplasm, eliciting a strong stress re­sponse of cells. In this study, the effect of NDV-induced SGs on its replication and the possible mechanism were investigated. Our results demonstrate that NDV-induced SGs facilitate viral replication through ma­nipulating host protein translation. 
 
SG formation was quantified visually by manual counting. For fixed cells, 10 images in 20 high-powered fields (HPFs) were obtained randomly in different fields. The total number of cells in each HPF was quantified by counting the number of nuclei. The infected cells were quantified by counting the cells stained for the presence of NDV NP. Cells displaying SG foci were quantified by counting the cells stained for the presence of the TIA-1 or G3BP1 proteins. 
Statistical analysis 
Data are expressed as means 6 SD. Significance was determined with the 2-tailed independent Student’s t test (P , 0.05) between 2 groups. One-way ANOVA followed by Tukey’s post hoc test was used to compare multiple groups (.2). 
 
Stable formation of SGs were induced in the course of NDV infection 
TIA-1 was used as a marker to evaluate v-SG formation on HeLa cells after NDV infection using IF assay (IFA). The viral NP was detected as early as 3 hpi, but no SGs were observed at this time point. Thereafter, a small amount of SGs emerged in NDV-infected cells at 6 hpi. The percent­age of infected cells with SGs increased over time until 12 hpi and was stable through 12–24 hpi (Fig. 1A, B). It is noteworthy that in the case of NDV infection, SGs only exist in the infected cells. We did not observe any SGs in cells that were not stained for the NDV NP (data not shown). Some NPs did not associate with TIA-1, but all the TIA-1 colocalized with NP (Fig. 1A, inset). Another SG marker, G3BP1, was used to verify SG formation in the course of NDV infection. A perfect colocalization pattern of TIA-1 and G3BP1 was observed in NDV-infected cells (Fig. 1C). Using monoclonal antibodies specific to the NDV NPs and PPs, we found that although NP partially local­ized in SGs, almost no colocalization between PP and the SG markers TIA-1 and G3BP1 was observed (Fig. 1D). The results were further confirmed by calculating the overlap coefficient (R)and Pearson’s correlation (R2) between viral protein and SG marker (Fig. 1D,fourthcolumn). These results indicate that NDV induced a stable formation of SGs and that the NDV NP was recruited to v-SGs. 
NDV-induced SGs require ongoing protein synthesis and contain typical SG markers 
Some viruses trigger atypical granules that exhibit distinct features compared with canonical SGs (20, 36). Unlike genuine SGs, AVGs do not disassemble in the presence of CHX, which stabilizes polysomes and prevents protein translation (21, 35). To examine the type of SGs induced by NDV infection, CHX was added to cells after inducing oxidative stress or initiating NDV infection. SGs induced by oxidative stress resolved in the presence of CHX (data not shown). Likewise, treatment of virus-infected cells with CHX resulted in significant disassembly of v-SGs (Fig. 2A, B). Previous reports have shown the mechanism of CHX inhibit of SG formation. In brief, mRNA must be liberated from polysomes before it can be recruited to SGs. CHX stabilize polysomes by freezing ribosomes on translating mRNAs and inhibit protein translation and SG formation (35). To rule out the possibility that CHX affects expression of key proteins involved in SG formation, we checked the proteins by Western blot analysis. Protein synthesis levels were monitored at different time points after NDV infection by using a nonradioactive method, surface sensing of translation (SUnSET) (34). The results showed that global protein synthesis was significantly inhibited in the presence of CHX. However, TIA-1 and b-actin expressions were not affected. In line with the IFA result, CHX treatment led to a significant decrease in viral NP (Fig. 2C). 
Virus-induced pseudo-SGs lack some SG markers, such as eIF3 or eIF4A (37). To determine conclusively whether NDV induces typical SGs and to characterize the role of protein translation in v-SGs, we tested whether the small ribosomal subunit and key components in eukaryotic translation initiation process, such as eIF4E, eIF4G, and eIF3A, were recruited to v-SGs. In ARS-or NDV-treated cells, an obvious colocalization of TIA-1, the authentic SG 
1340 Vol. 31 April 2017 The FASEB Journal x www.fasebj.org 
SUN ET AL. 

Figure 1. Stable formation of SGs is induced during NDV infection.A) HeLa cells were mock treated or infected with NDV at an MOI of 1, .xed, and processed for IF. Anti-TIA-1 was used as an SG marker. Anti-NP was used as a marker for virus infection.B) The percentages of infected cells containing SGs per HPF were quanti.ed. Data are means from 3 independent experiments. Error bars show standard deviations.C) HeLa cells were mock-treated, treated with ARS, or infected with NDV at an MOI of 1 for 12 h. Cells were .xed and processed for IF. Anti-TIA-1 and anti-G3BP were both used as SG markers.D) HeLa cells were infected with NDV atan MOI of1 for12 h, .xed, and processed for IF. Anti-TIA-1 and anti-G3BP were used as SG markers. Anti-NP and anti-PP speci.cally recognize NDV NPs and PPs. The overlapping coef.cient (R) and Pearson’s correlation (R2) were shown in merged images. Arrows: the colocalization of NP and SG markers. 
marker, and rPS6, eIF4E, eIF4G ,or eIF3A was observed (Fig. 2D–G). Taken together, these results suggest that NDV induces canonical SGs, which is similar to the SGs formed under oxidative stress, indicating that ongoing protein synthesis is essential for NDV-induced SGs. 
PKR/eIF2a signaling cascade is essential for NDV-induced SGs 
The activation of PKR and eIF2a leads to SG formation in virus-infected cells (38). Therefore, we investigated whether PKR/eIF2a is necessary for the induction of SGs in NDV-infected cells. We measured eIF2a phosphoryla­tion and found that NDV triggered eIF2a phosphorylation at the late stage of infection, consistent with the appear­ance of v-SGs (Fig. 3A). Phosphorylation of eIF2a leads to SG assembly by reducing the levels of the ternary complex eIF2-GTP-tRNAMet. The decrease of eIF2-GTP-tRNAMet ultimately leads to a global decrease in protein syn­thesis (39). As expected, NDV infection reduced host protein translation over the time). Correspondingly, the viral NP accumulated at the late stage of infection. We noted that the decreased levels of eIF2a and b-actin at 24 hpi werethe result of thecellshedding caused by virus infection. 
To elucidate further the potential role of eIF2a in v-SGs, we measured SG formation by transfecting 2 eIF2a mutant plasmids, S51D and S51A eIF2a, which mimic hyper-and hypophosphorylated forms of eIF2a,re­spectively. No SG dots were observed in S51A eIF2a­transfected cells, comparedwiththe SG dots observed in WT eIF2a-transfected cells. Conversely, S51D eIF2a transfection led to the accumulation of SG dots that appeared larger than v-SGs. (Fig. 3B). To examine whether PKR acts as an upstream component of eIF2a in the formation of v-SGs, cells were costained for PKR and TIA-1/G3BP1. PKR were colocalized with either TIA-1 or G3BP1, respectively, after infection (Fig. 4A). Western blot analysis showed that PKR and down­stream eIF2a was phosphorylated after ARS treatment and virus infection (Fig. 4B). Depletion of endogenous PKR by siRNA reduced the level of eIF2a phosphory­lation and the percentage of cells with SGs significantly (Fig. 4C–E). Together, these results demonstrate that NDV-induced SGs are dependent on the PKR/eIF2a signaling pathway. 
Microtubule disruption leads to the formation of small SGs after NDV infection 
SGs are considered to be dynamic structures. The move­ment of canonical SGs is associated with cytoskeletal ele­ments, especially microtubules (40–42). Conversely, the cytoskeleton seems unnecessary in virus-induced atypical SGs. Previous reports showed that vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV)-induced SG-like structures are distinct from canonical SGs (37). One characteristic of SG-like structures is that they do not dependent on a cellular microtubule or microfilament network. Accordingly, to confirm whether NDV-induced SGs were canonical SGs, we evaluated the role of microtubules and microfilaments in the formation of v-SGs. In cells treated with Noc, obvious depolymerization of microtubules was observed, but the formation of NDV-induced SGs was unaffected. Noc treatment induced the formation of small and circular granules, compared to the large and irregular SGs in NDV-infected cells (Fig. 5A). Statistical analysis showed that both mean area and di­ameter of SG dots in cells treated with Noc were significantly less than those in cells treated with DMSO (Fig. 5C, D). To evaluate the role of microfilaments in the formation of v-SGs, cells were treated with CytoD before NDV in­fection. As expected, CytoD treatment depolymerized microfilaments (Fig. 5B, right panel), but had no effect on the formation of NDV-induced SGs, similar to previous reports (41, 42). 
Because the cytoskeleton may play a role in NDV-induced SGs, we next evaluated whether its disruption affects the phosphorylation of PKR/eIF2a and protein translation. The results showed that administration of CytoD or Noc influenced neither PKR/eIF2a phosphory­lation nor global protein synthesis (Fig. 5E, F). These results reveal the potential role of microtubules in the formation of large NDV-induced SGs but not global protein translation. 
Depletion of endogenous TIA-1 and TIAR reduces NDV replication on HeLa cells 
That NDV induced stable formation of bona fide SGs led us to explore the role of SGs on NDV replication. Transfection of mutant forms of TIA blocks SG formation, suggesting that TIA proteins are essential to SG assembly (2). To ex­amine whether TIA is necessary for efficient NDV in­fection, HeLa cells were transfected with siRNA specific for TIA-1 and then infected with NDV. SG formation was efficiently inhibited in siTIA-1-transfected cells upon ARS treatment 
 Role of protein synthesis and the presence of small ribosomal subunit and eukaryotic initiation factors in v-SGs.A) HeLa cells were mock treated or infected with NDV at an MOI of 1 for 12 h. Cells in the bottom panel were exposed to 100 mg/ml CHX. At indicated time points, cells were .xed and processed for IF. Anti-TIA-1 was used as an SG marker. Anti-NP was used as a marker for virus infection.B) The percentages of cells containing SGs per HPF were quanti.ed, and data are presented as means from 3 independent experiments. ***P# 0.001, 2-tailed Student’s ttest. C) HeLa cells were treated as described for A, pulsed with 1 mM puromycin for 1 h at 37°C, and subjected to Western blot analysis.D–G) HeLa cells were mock treated, treated with ARS or infected with NDV at an MOI of 1 for 12 h, .xed, and processed for IF. Anti-TIA-1 was used as an SG marker. Anti-rPS6 (D), -eIF4E (E), -eIF4G (F), and -eIF3A (G) were used as the markers of small ribosomal subunit and typical eukaryotic initiation factors. Arrows: colocalization of TIA-1 and other SG markers. Intensity pro.le of linear region of interest (ROI) across the HeLa cell costained with TIA-1 and other SG markers. 
replication, possibly by manipulating protein trans­lation systems. 
NDV-induced SGs contain predominantly cellular mRNA but not viral mRNA 
Having found that v-SGs benefit the replication of NDV by manipulating the translation system, we checked whether the SG formation and stalled trans­lation initiation were predominantly directed against viral or host protein translation. FISH was used to detect total cellular mRNA, as well as viral NP mRNA. Polyadenylated mRNA was specifically recruited to virus-induced SGs marked by both TIA-1 and TIAR (Fig. 7A, C). It was noted that in uninfected cells or cells containing no SG dots, polyadenylated mRNA was 

  Phosphorylation of eIF2a at Ser-51 is required for v-SGs.A) HeLa cells were mock treated or infected with NDV at an MOI of 1. Cells were pulsed with 1 mM puromycin for 1 h at 37°C and then subjected to Western blot analysis.B) HeLa cells were transfected with PJX40-Flag-WT eIF2a, S51A, and S51D mutant eIF2a, followed by treatment at 24 h after transfection with infection of NDV at an MOI of 1. The cells were collected, .xed, and visualized at 12 hpi. Arrows: transfected cells. 
diffusely dispersed in the cytoplasm (arrowhead). In contrast, almost all polyadenylated mRNA was recruited to v-SGs at 12 and 18 hpi (arrow). Because Poly (A) tail has also been found on the messenger RNAs of NDV (43), v-SGs may contain both viral and host mRNA. To verify whether NDV mRNA is a component of SGs, we examined infected cells with FISH probes that hybridize to viral NP mRNA. NP mRNA was first detected in some cells infected for 6 h with NDV, compared with no positive fluorescence in mock-treated cells. Meanwhile, no obvious SGs were observed in NP mRNA–positive cells at 6 hpi. At 12 and 18 hpi, a small portion of NP mRNA was localized with TIA-1 or TIAR. However, large amounts of NP mRNA were distributed throughout the cytoplasm andexcludedfromv-SGs (Fig.7B, D). The over­lapping intensity profiles of the SG markers and mRNA (as visualized in the line profiles in the fifth column) further demonstrate the colocalization pro­file between cellular mRNA and SG markers, whereas most viral mRNA was not localized with SG markers (Fig. 7, sixth column). Similarly, SGs in poliovirus­infected cells are largely devoid of positive-sense poliovirus RNA, but contain polyadenylated RNA. Poliovirus-induced SGs are also stable over the course of infection (44). Overall, these results indicate that NDV-induced SGs predominantly recruit cellular mRNA, whereas a large portion of viral mRNA seem to escape from v-SGs. 
Depletion of endogenous TIA-1 and TIAR reduced NP mRNA levels in polysomes 
In tomato cells exposed to heat shock, mRNA transfers from polysomes to SGs, whereas mRNA moves from SGs to polysomes when cells recover from heat shock (45). In addition to mRNA, SGs per se are highly dynamic domains containing mRNA accompanied by dynamic shuttling of TIA-1 and are in equilibrium with polysomes (35). Because v-SGs contain predominantly cellular mRNA, then we asked whether disruption of SGs would lead to the release of cellular mRNA that competitively binds to polysomes and thereby reduces viral mRNA translation. To elucidate the mechanisms how TIA-1/TIAR regulate virus in­fection, sucrose gradient analysis was performed to sepa­rate monosomes and polysomes before viral mRNA quantification in TIA-1/TIAR-knockdown cells. The ab­sorbance of individual fractions distinguished mono­somes (fractions 1–4) from polysomes (fractions 5–12) (Fig. 8A). Western blot analysis of individual fractions for ri­bosomal protein S6 showed that compared with mock infection, under virus infection, rPS6 was detected in fractions 1–8, suggesting that small ribosomal protein tends to shift to lower density fractions that contain monosomes. TIA-1, TIAR, and PABP, as typical SG markers, were all found mainly in monosomes in virus infection. Similar to the ribosome profile results, the amounts of PABP and rPS6 proteins showed no sig­nificant differences between siRNA and control groups (Fig. 8B). To verify whether knockdown of endogenous TIA-1/TIAR influences the viral mRNA profile in individual fractions, NDV NP mRNA was detected by absolute real-time PCR quantification. The results showed that, in fractions 1–4, the NP mRNA level in siTIA-1/TIAR-treated cells was similar to that in control cells. However, lower NP mRNA levels in TIA-1/TIAR-knockdown cells, compared with that in scrambled cells, was detected in fractions 5–12 (Fig. 8C). These results demonstrate that depletion of en­dogenous TIA-1 and TIAR reduces NP mRNA levels in polysomes. 
Depletion of endogenous G3BP1, another key SG component, also reduced NDV replication on HeLa cells 
To verify whether the translation regulation is driven by v-SGs or TIA-1/R per se, we knocked down G3BP1, another key SG component, and evaluated virus rep­lication efficiency. As expected, SG formation was ef­ficiently inhibited in siG3BP1-transfected cells upon 
1344 Vol. 31 April 2017 The FASEB Journal x www.fasebj.org 
SUN ET AL. 

treatment . 
HeLa 
cells 
were 
transfected with 2 siRNAs specific to G3BP1 and then infected with NDV. In G3BP1-depleted cells infected with NDV, the expression of the viral NP and virus yields were significantly lower than in cells transfected with scrambled siRNAs, especially at 12 hpi (Fig. 9A, B, D). We next monitored global protein synthesis after NDV infection. Similar to TIA-1 and TIAR, siG3BP1 resulted in the significant up-regulation of global translation levels (Figs. 9A, C). The results indicate that G3BP1 is also necessary for NDV replication by trans­lation regulation. 
Depletion of endogenous TIA-1 does not affect virus genome replication 
Because v-SGs regulate protein translation in the course of virus infection, we asked whether SGs play a role in virus genome replication. FISH was used to detect NDV negative-strand genome RNA. Viral 


To date, several viruses are known to modulate SG formation to promote their replication. Measles virus (MV) and Sendai virus (SeV), 2 members of the Paramyxoviridae family, however, do not induce SGs during their infection. It is suggested that MV and SeV encode C protein (46, 47), which limits the generation of intracellular double-stranded RNA and activation of PKR to inhibit eIF2a phosphoryla­tion (48, 49). In respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), another member of the Paramyxoviridae family, SGs are triggered at 12 hpi and increase throughout the 24 h period of infection (22). Our data demonstrate that NDV induced stable formation of bona fide SGs. Both NDV and RSV induce SG formation, and encode no C protein, suggesting that the C protein is a key player in determining the fate of SGs in Paramyxovirus infections. 
Our results showed that SGs existed only in the NDV-infected cells. In addition, at the late stage of NDV infection, there were some NP-positive cells containing no SG dots (Fig. 1A). Furthermore, UV-treated NDV did 
cells were .xed and processed for IF. Actin was stained with actin-tracker green (1:100) followed by IFA with anti-TIA-1 antibody as an SG marker.C, D) For .xed cells, 10 cells in 40 HPFs were chosen randomly, and mean area (C ) and diameter (D)ofSG dots per cell were calculated. Data are presented as means from 3 independent experiments. Signi.cance is analyzed with 2-tailed Student’s t test. **P # 0.01. E) HeLa cells were pretreated with Noc, CytoD, or DMSO for 4 h followed by infection of NDV Herts/33 at an MOI of 1. After 1 h of virus absorption at 37°C, the cells were further cultured in fresh medium in the absence Noc, CytoD, or DMSO. At 12 and 24 hpi, cells were pulsed with 1 mM puromycin for 1 h at 37°C before they were collected and subjected to Western blot analysis. F) Representative results are shown with graphs representing the ratio of puromycin to b-actin normalized to the control condition. Data are means from 3 independent experiments. ***P , 0.001; #P . 0.05, 1-way ANOVA followed by Tukey’s post hoc test. 

Cellular, but not viral mRNA, is predominately recruited in NDV-induced SGs. HeLa cells were mock treated or infected with NDV at an MOI of 1 for 6, 12, and 18 h. At the indicated time points, cells were .xedand processedfor FISH. Probes speci.cally hybridized to polyadenylated mRNA (green) (A, C ), NP mRNA (red) (B, D)wereusedto testspeci.c components in SGs. Anti-TIA-1 (A, B)and anti-TIAR(C, D) were used as an SG marker. Arrows: SG-positive cells. Arrowheads: SG-negative cells. Right: Intensity pro.le of linear region of interest (ROI) across the HeLa cell costained with SG markers and mRNA. 
not trigger SG formation. The line of evidence suggests that viral replication, but not viral protein, is essential for v-SGs. In our study, NP partially localized in SGs, whereas almost no colocalization of PP and TIA-1 was observed, which is consistent with previous re­ports. In the course of RSV infection, viral inclusion bodies, which are marked by anti-N and -P anti­bodies, are spatially separated from SGs (22). In paramyxoviruses, such as mumps, N-protein en­capsulates full-length viral negative sense genomic and positive sense antigenomic RNAs to form the helical nucleocapsid template (25). The N-protein of VSV seems to bind to any available RNA species, irrespective of sequence. However, this binding is blocked when the N-protein is complexed with PP (NS) (50). Likewise, Sendai virus PP forms complexes with unassembled N protein (N°). This complex pre­vents N protein from self-assembling and, thus, favors nucleocapsid assembly and viral transcription (26). Besides, a recent report showed that NDV positive-but not negative-stranded RNA is located in SGs (51). In line with that, in our study, viral negative-stranded gRNA was not recruited to SGs. Therefore, we specu­late that a fraction of the NDV NP was recruited to v-SGs through binding to cellular or viral positive-stranded RNAs, and additional unassembled NP° may form complexes with the PP and remains excluded from v-SGs. However, this hypothesis needs to be investi­gated further. 
The cytoplasmic granules induced by viral infec­tions are distinct from typical SGs in both composition and function. An E3 mutant vaccinia virus induces AVGs, which are atypical SGs that neither contain the 40S ribosomal subunit, nor disassemble when treated with polysome-stabilizing drugs such as CHX and emetine (20). VSV-induced pseudo-SGs lack eIF3 and eIF4A (37). At the late stage of poliovirus infection, virus-induced SGs contain TIA but lack translation initiation factors, mRNA binding proteins, and most polyadenylated mRNA (17). In our study, CHX treat­ment caused the disassembly of NDV-induced SGs. Moreover, TIA-1 was colocalized with G3BP1, rPS6, eIF4E, eIF4G, or eIF3A in both ARS-treated cells and NDV-infected cells, indicating that NDV triggers bona fide SGs. 
Paramyxovirus simian virus 5 (SV5) is a weak ac­tivator of the PKR/eIF2a signaling pathway and thereby does not globally inhibit translation (52). Viral cytoplasmic bodies induced by SV5 infection do not colocalize with cellular markers for SGs. In this report, 
 
we confirmed the association between the PKR/eIF2a pathway and v-SG formation, indicating that NDV in­fection activated PKR/eIF2a pathway significantly and inhibited global translation. Furthermore, PKR/eIF2a pathwayplayedakeyroleinNDV-induced SGs. 
The function of microtubules in SG formation under physical and chemical stimuli varies in different reports. An earlier study showed that disruption of microtubules 

 Correspondingly, viruses use several mechanisms to evade or even take advantage of SGs. Most viruses exploit several mechanisms to antagonize SG formation, such as G3BP cleavage and PKR inactivation (15, 16, 47). In contrast to this, HCV and RSV trigger stable formation of bona fide SGs. In other words, the formation of SGs is accompanied by virus infection (18, 22). The symbiotic relationship between SG formation and virus infection suggests that SG is a beneficial factor rather than an intrinsic defense mechanism during infections of some viruses. In these cases, the depletion of SG key compo­nents, such as TIA-1, TIAR, or G3BP, results in decreased virus replication, indicating the proviral function of SG proteins. Similarly, in our study, NDV triggers stable formation of bona fide SGs. TIA-1/R knockdown led to a decrease in viral protein synthesis and extracellular virus yields, especially at the middle stage of infection. 
Overall, we found that: 1) NDV induced SGs to inhibit global protein translation through eIF2a phosphorylation; 
2) blockage of SGs using siTIA-1 inhibited viral protein synthesis and extracellular virus yields; 3)NDV-induced SGs predominantly recruited cellular mRNA, whereas large amounts of NDV mRNA were excluded; and 4)de­pletion of endogenous TIA-1/R and TIAR reduced NDV mRNA levels in polysomes. Therefore, we propose that host cells respond to NDV infection by SG formation. The degradation of SGs by siTIA-1 leads to the release of cel­lular mRNA from SGs to the cytoplasm. The released host mRNA competitively binds to polysomes and thereby re­duces the translation ratio of viral mRNA, ultimately leading to a decrease of viral translation level and extra­cellular virus yields. 
Semliki forest virus causes translation inhibition of host cellular proteins through eIF2a phosphorylation. The translational shutoff is delayed in TIA-12/2 murine embryonic fibroblasts (11), indicating TIA function on the inhibition, which is in accord with our results. Both TIA-1 and TIAR are RNA binding proteins and function in a similar manner in translation inhibition and SG formation (1, 11, 39). In addition, TIA-1/R interacts with West Nile virus RNA and facilitates virus replication (53). Except for TIA-1/R, other cellular proteins are in­volved in SG assembly. For instance, G3BP1 and G3BP2 synergistically regulate the formation of SGs in various human cells (54). RSV replication is impaired in G3BP knockdown cells compared to its replication in control cells (22). Similarly, in our study, siG3BP1 inhibited viral protein expression and extracellular virus yields, and meanwhile led to the increase in global protein trans­lation, indicating that the translation balance is mediated by v-SGs rather than TIA-1/R per se. A recent publication refuted the claim that NDV-induced SGs enhance IFN induction on HeLa cells; however, no virus replication data were shown (51). NDV infections induce IFN-b production in both normal and tumor cells (24, 55); however, pretreatment with endogenous or exogenous IFN-b has little or no effect on reducing the NDV yield or replication in tumor cells, although IFN-b treatment completely inhibits NDV replication in normal cells (55). In tumor cells, SGs play an important role in recognizing uncapped viral RNA and facilitating IFN-b production. However, they may only play a marginal role in NDV replication, which was confirmed by the little or some­what negative effect of siG3BPs on viral N and L protein expression (51). It is possible that both pro-and antiviral effects of SGs are at play and that the virus has developed mechanisms to overcome the antiviral effects of SGs. In our study, knockdown of SG key components TIA-1, TIAR, or G3BP1 reduced NDV protein expression and extracellular virus yields, demonstrating that SGs play a proviral role in NDV infection. 
In our current study, NDV triggered stable formation of bona fide SGs through the PKR/eIF2a pathway. TIA-1 and TIAR regulated NDV replication by manipulating cellular protein translation on HeLa cells, where NDV selectively replicates (55, 56). We also found that NDV infection in­duced cytoplasmic SG dots in chicken fibroblast cells DF-1 and primary chicken embryo fibroblast cells, and ectopic expression of GFP tagged chicken G3BP1 increased NDV replication (unpublished results). The relationship between autophagy and NDV has been identified in lung cancer cells and human glioma cells (57–59). That NDV efficiently and selectively replicates in and kills tumor and chicken cells, but not in other normal mammalian cells leads us to spec­ulate whether the cell stress responses, such as autophagy and SGs, contribute to the tumor-selective replication of NDV. However, thehypothesisshouldbeinvestigated further. Understanding how NDV manipulates stress re­sponses will lay the groundwork for developing more ef­fective oncolytic viruses and novel anticancer strategies. 

The virion host shutoff (VHS) RNase tegument protein released into cells by infecting virus has two effects. Preexisting stable mRNAs (e.g., GAPDH [glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase]) are rapidly degraded. Stress response RNAs containing AU-rich elements (AREs) in the 3 untranslated region (3UTR) are dead­enylated and cleaved, but the cleavage products persist for hours, in contrast to the short half-lives of ARE-containing mRNAs in uninfected cells. At late times, the VHS RNase is neutralized by the viral structural proteins VP16 and VP22. A recent study (J. A. Corcoran, W. L. Hsu, and J. R. Smiley, J. Virol. 80:9720–9729, 2006) reported that, at relatively late times after infection, ARE RNAs are rapidly degraded in cells infected with ICP27 mutant virus and concluded that ICP27 “stabilizes” ARE mRNAs. We report the following. (i) The rates of degradation of ARE mRNA at early times (3 h) after infection with the wild type or the ICP27 mutant virus are virtually identical, and hence ICP27 plays no role in this process. (ii) In noncomplementing cells, VHS RNase or VP22 is not synthesized. Therefore, the only VHS that is active is brought into cells by the ICP27 mutant. (ii) The VHS RNase brought into the cells by the ICP27 virus is reduced in potency relative to that of wild-type virus. Hence the rapid degradation of ARE mRNAs noted in ICP27 mutant-infected cells at late times is similar to that taking place in mock-infected or in VHS RNase mutant-virus-infected cells and does not by itself support the hypothesis that ICP27 stabilizes ARE mRNAs. (iii) Concurrently, we present the frst evidence that VHS RNase interacts with ICP27 most likely when bound to cap-and poly(A)-binding proteins, respectively. 
The herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) UL41 gene encod­ing a protein (virion host shutoff [VHS]) that is carried by the virion into the infected cell and causes the shutoff of host protein synthesis was frst reported by Frenkel and coworkers in the late 1980s (24, 25, 26, 43). Although it was long sus­pected that VHS is an RNase (11, 12, 22, 32, 52), unambiguous evidence that VHS is an endoribonuclease with a substrate specifcity of RNase A emerged from studies of a protein purifed to homogeneity (46, 47). The VHS RNase is active during the frst several hours after infection, and then it is neutralized by proteins made late in infection. Initial reports indicated that the neutralizing protein is VP16 (27, 38). More recent studies from this laboratory showed that an additional late viral protein, VP22, is required for the neutralization of the RNase activity of VHS protein (48). In this report, we show that VHS interacts with still another viral protein, ICP27, and that this protein is required to block degradation of specifc mRNAs at times when ICP27 becomes available for this func­tion. Relevant to this report are the following. 
Studies on the incorporation of radioactive amino acids into proteins after infection in cells infected with wild-type virus but not with a mutant lacking VHS activity led to the speculation that VHS activity is nonselective (23, 29, 30, 36). Most of the early work was done on model viral mRNAs, and these studies sustained the conclusion that VHS activity was not selective. Even though Soreson and colleagues (41) reported as early as 

1991 that VHS mediated the degradation of some mRNAs but spared other mRNAs, most notably, histone mRNAs, the issue was still debated as late as 2004 (reviewed in reference 39). 
This laboratory was the frst to report that the degradation of mRNA during the early hours after infection by wild-type virus was highly selective (14, 16, 45). Thus, mRNAs that are highly stable in uninfected cells, exemplifed by GAPDH (glyceralde­hyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) and actin mRNAs, were rapidly degraded. In contrast, stress response mRNAs contain­ing AU-rich elements (AREs) in the 3 untranslated region (3UTR), exemplifed by IEX-1, c-Fos, IkB, or cox-2, which in uninfected cells share very short half-lives (1, 4, 51), were deadenylated and cleaved at or near the AREs (14). Whereas the 3 cleavage product rapidly disappeared, the 5 portion of the cleaved RNA lingered for many hours. Lastly, a subset of mRNAs exemplifed by GADD45 and tristetraprolin (TTP) directed the synthesis of corresponding proteins and were not degraded (14). TTP is of particular interest for three reasons: 
(i) its mRNA contains AREs (3), (ii) TTP physically interacts with VHS protein (15), and (iii) in uninfected cells, TTP binds AREs and sequesters the mRNAs for degradation by exo­somes (5, 28). 
The VHS protein was also reported to bind cap-binding proteins (9, 17, 18, 19, 31). In addition, this laboratory has shown that VHS is active and degrades mRNA in polyribo­somes (49). We proposed a model of degradation of intrinsi­cally stable mRNAs (GAPDH) and of ARE mRNAs on the basis of known structures of translated mRNAs, known path­ways of mRNA decay, and the interaction of VHS protein with the cap-binding complex and TTP. In brief, in the course of mRNA translation, it is the poly(A)-binding protein at the 3 end that physically abuts the cap-binding complex at the 5 end  of the mRNA. In the absence of AREs, VHS is predicted to bind the cap-binding complex and decap the mRNA. This is the normal pathway of degradation of mRNA and would lead to 5-to-3 exonucleolytic degradation of the cleaved RNA. In the presence of TTP bound to AREs, VHS is expected to bind TTP and cleave the mRNA at the AREs. The 3 product of the cleavage would be rapidly degraded 5 to 3 in the same man­ner as the GAPDH mRNA. A dearth or lack of enzymes necessary to degrade the 5 cleavage product containing an intact cap may account for the lingering of the cleavage prod­uct for many hours. 
Corcoran and colleagues (6) analyzed the degradation of AU-rich IEX-1 mRNA at relatively late times after infection. The time frame of their studies was selected on the basis of the presence of abundant amounts of ICP27 in the infected cells. They concluded that ICP27 is required to stabilize full-length, polyadenylated IEX mRNA and that VHS is not involved in this process. In the description of their studies, they confused the cleavage events occurring during the early hours after in­fection when the mRNAs are cleaved and partially degraded in a VHS-but not a ICP27-dependent manner with events taking place at late time intervals. In this report, we have reexamined the degradation of GAPDH and IEX-1 mRNAs at early and late times in infection. Indeed, at late times, the IEX-1 is degraded in ICP27 virus-infected cells at a rate similar to that in noninfected or VHS virus-infected cells. Consistent with this fnding is the evidence that VHS does not accumulate in ICP27 virus-infected cells and that the VHS brought into cells by ICP27 virions is less effective that that brought into cells by wild-type virus. At the same time, we report the frst evidence that VHS physically interacts with ICP27 both in lysates of infected cells and in transfected cells.  







