Membership in a protein domain database does not a domain make; a feature we realized when generating a consensus view of protein fold space with our Consensus Domain Dictionary (CDD). This dictionary was used to select representative structures for characterization of the protein dynameome: the Dynameomics initiative. Through this endeavor we rejected a surprising 40% of the 1695 folds in the CDD as being non-autonomous folding units. Although some of this was due to the challenges of grouping similar fold topologies, the dissonance between the cataloguing and structural qualification of protein domains remains surprising. Another potential factor is previously overlooked intrinsic disorder; predicted estimates suggest 40% of proteins to have either local or global disorder. One thing is clear, filtering a structural database and ensuring a consistent definition for protein domains is crucial, and caution is prescribed when generalizations of globular domains are drawn from unfiltered protein domain datasets. 
The interpretation of “protein domain” is highly dependent upon context, yet in all definitions a domain is a region of an amino acid sequence with features that are repeated throughout the protein kingdom. These features can be a region of conserved primary structure [1], part of a sequence known to confer function, or defined by the boundaries within which the sequence can form a structural unit. A structural domain is loosely defined as a unit that can exist independently when excised from the full protein or complex. More specifically, a domain is an independently structured unit capable of autonomous folding. In many cases function is related to structure, and the boundaries of a functional domain can correlate with those of the structural domain, with sequence conservation in both the structural and functional sense. However, in the structural context, protein domain families need not have high sequence similarity; they require only similarity in the tertiary structure of that “fold”. Grouping structures based on similarity, or performing a geometric alignment of conserved structure, is decidedly more challenging than the alignment of a protein sequence. Two proteins with a similar arrangement of secondary structure may not have the same chain directionality through the secondary structure elements, and they may contain non-conserved regions that are significantly different. Figure 1A illustrates this scenario for five domains from the ferredoxin-like fold family. The commonality in the arrangement of two a-helices packed against a ß-sheet is apparent, yet there is extraneous structure and variation in the lengths and alignment of loop regions. Hence, defining a domain can be a complex matter and is susceptible to much uncertainty and inconsistency. 
The origin of classifying structural units into domains came following the solution of very similar structures starting with myoglobin in 1958 [2] and haemoglobin in 1960 [3]. It was clear even from these early low-resolution structures that there were common structural elements. The simplest of these show collections of secondary structure found together in repeated arrangements [4] that appear in all members of a given fold family. Domains themselves, can be classified based on the overall structure observed, all-a, all-ß or a mixture of a/ß or a+ß. Examples within these broad classes can be found in Figure 1B: all­ß, immunoglobulin-like;a+ß, flavodoxin-like; a/ß, TIM barrel; and all-a, three-helical bundle. Today, identification of a novel domain structure, or fold, is rare [5]; since 2008 the RCSB Protein Data Bank (PDB, www.pdb.org) has not registered the deposition of any new folds [6]. Despite the huge number of folds theoretically possible [7], many believe that protein fold space is nearly complete, at least for single-domain globular proteins [8–11]. 
Although similarities between protein structures are often visibly apparent, classifying protein structure suffers from three main hurdles: deciding where the boundaries of a domain lie, how to group similar structures together, and when a structure is ‘too’ different to be part of a group [11]. The first comprehensive attempt to group protein domains by structural similarity was in 1976 when patterns were categorized across a set of 31 globular proteins [4]. Since then, there have been three leading databases that have specialized in categorization of protein structure into fold families: SCOP [12], CATH [13] and Dali [14]. 
The Structural Classification of Proteins database (SCOP) started as a manual effort, with visual inspection used to identify domains and classify them based on evolutionary relationships [12]. The structures were first placed into all-a, all-ß or mixed aß classes based on the overall secondary structure content, then grouped by shared function or structural features irrespective of their sequence similarity. Next, they were grouped based on sequence similarity, and finally by the nature of the conserved topologies. Due to increasing speed with which protein structures were being solved, this eventually became a partially automated effort along with refinement of the classification definitions [15]. CATH derives its name from the classification system it uses: C, class; A, architecture; T, topology; H, homologous superfamily [13]. The systems uses fully automated sequence alignments, structure comparisons and domain definitions, with homology detected at the 35% sequence identity limit. Dali first determines the presence of a domain depending on how compact it is and uses a neural network to perform fully automated domain classifications [14]. 
Providing further testament to the challenge of categorizing structures, there are inconsistencies regarding how many of the domain structures have been siphoned into domain families by these protein domain databases. To perform a large-scale assessment across protein fold space, such conflict in the assignment of a structure to one domain family or another presents a problem. For this reason, the definition and classification of protein structures became a key part of the Dynameomics project: an initiative to simulate and catalogue the dynamics of representatives of all known protein folds (Fig. 1B) [16, 17]. 
Given the structural similarity observed through protein fold space, Dynameomics focuses on representatives of protein folds rather than all known protein structures, making the problem more tractable while still achieving sampling of fold space. In contrast, other ‘big’ science projects, such as the Human Genome and Human Proteome projects require waiting for the entire human genome and proteome to be catalogued [18]. Dynameomics began over a decade ago and 807 proteins of different topologies, representing essentially all known globular protein folds, have now been simulated at both room and high temperatures, totaling hundreds of terabytes of data (Fig. 1B). At the beginning of this effort, it was clear that discrepancies between the different protein domain databases presented a problem and some uniformity needed to be established. To catalogue the dynamics of all known protein domains we needed a consensus view of fold space. 
The motivation behind generation of a consensus domain dictionary (CDD) [19, 20] was to gather a set of representative protein structures that could be used to systematically investigate all of protein fold space and determine the principles of protein dynamics and folding. This structure-based dictionary should not be confused with the Conserved Domain Database [1, 21] that categorizes the primary sequences of protein domains from an evolutionary standpoint. 
The collation of all identified structural domains currently in SCOP, CATH and Dali into a consensus set was initially done in 2003 using a metadata approach [19]. This was then updated in 2009 to include any new protein folds discovered in that interim period [20]. The total number of metafolds increased by 595, reflecting not just newly discovered folds but also the refinement of structural classifications that occurred during this six year period [15, 22]. Consequently, there were some domains made obsolete, re-delineation of some domain boundaries, as well as a merging of domains and metafolds within the v2009 CDD. Once complete, there had been inclusion of 976 “new” metafolds, composed entirely of “new” domains that were not present in the v2003 CDD. 
After assimilating and filtering the information contained within our v2009 CDD, the final Dynameomics dataset contained 807 representative structures taken from metafolds that encompass 97% of all currently known protein structuresAs the goal of the Dynameomics initiative has been to perform atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of the native state and unfolding pathways of representative structures for all known globular protein domains, some of the metafolds included in the CDD were superfluous to our needs. Any non-globular proteins (i.e. transmembrane or fibrous proteins) were not included, but these were few (Fig. 2). Due to the limits of our modeling methods and computational power we restricted the study to the part of the proteome where domains were less than 450 residues and rejected those with multiple or large cofactors for which we had no parameters. These restrictions were seconded by the facts that few domains are larger than 450 residues [24] and, although parameters could be developed for the multiple or large cofactors, many domains with such cofactors are really a polypeptide wrapped around a cofactor, such that there is little conventional structure. Other reasons for rejection were experimental structures of suboptimal quality or with large regions of missing coordinates (Fig. 2). Further, there were 19 NMR structures that were initially included but when modeled were found to have unstable native states. All but five, which had alternative X-ray crystal structures that were substituted and simulated successfully, were removed from the study. The starting structures for these 14 rejected simulations were designated questionable. In total, 888 protein domains were rejected in response to the requirements of the Dynameomics project (Fig. 2). Of these 888 rejected metafolds, 672 were not simulated because they are not structural protein domains. These were the metafolds we rejected because their structures were irregular with little secondary structure, structural units that were unlikely to fold autonomously, or composite domains, where the domain of interest was interrupted by a second structural domain, i.e. discontinuous (Fig. 2). The v2009 CDD definitions and representative structures of the 1695 metafolds, along with the 807 representatives qualified as “suitable” domains and successfully simulated, can be accessed at http://www.dynameomics.org/external/Targetlist/ index.aspx. Overall, the majority of the rejected metafolds were eliminated because they are unable to be designated as autonomous domains or folds. 
Here we revisit the 888 rejected metafolds, as there are subsets that warrant further inspection, especially in light of the expanding knowledge of the existence of proteins with local or global regions that lack structure, the so-called intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) [25]. These subsets may assist us in adapting our definition of domains to include what now appears to be a continuum of structures from disordered to highly regular structure. The structures we rejected because they had regions of atoms that were experimentally invisible, were non-autonomous folders, or had irregular and unstable structure, could be part of the unfoldome [26]. To avoid including further complexity at this point, we continue to ignore transmembrane and fibrous proteins and focus on globular protein or constituent domains less than 450 residues in length. We survey here the resulting dataset of 755 rejected metafolds (Fig. 2) by reexamining discarded simulations and performing disorder predictions using the DISOPRED2 classifier [27]. 
In the latest rendition of the CDD, 
